Introduction Essentials
Intro – Joy of the Lord and RRR explained
[00]Why laugh? Heard a short video on the joy of the Lord is our strength? Made me remember, that is recount, which in working with learners (disciples), is the time to recertify, which is an old but very true Newspaper writer saying: "Tell them, then tell them what you told them, then tell them once more memorably." Huh?
How do you make a three time repeat interesting? Remember your first...?
In my pretty boring, unexciting, calm life; I've been fired lots of times. Sometimes it was on me, sometimes, it was on them- now, watch this one- it's gonna ‘get’cha’, sometimes it was on God. Ooh that'll make some folk ‘get-on-up’. But watch this:
John 9:1-3 As he went along, he saw a man blind from birth. 2 His disciples asked him, “Rabbi, who sinned, this man or his parents, that he was born blind?”3 “Neither this man nor his parents sinned,” said Jesus, “but this happened so that the works of God might be displayed in him.
God is doing, in your life, you may or, may not be aware of that- when you look back, and count the times that's recounting, remember, recount and recertify is a process with learners(disciples), that as you catch on, you catch on
Doctors are supposed to know, if they the medical kind, if they the philosophical kind, if they the theological kind; they supposed to know? So what they practice in medicine is called observe, diagnose, treat, verify. In philosophy that's observe, measure by questioning called hypothesizing, measure by testing, conclude or redo.  In theology(God talk) we observe, ("sound familiar?) see Bible or other source material, hypothesize (format question for learning), measure and conclude or redo. All doctorate level knowledge goes back, re certifies, over and over and over endlessly. Remember, recount, recertify, tell them, tell them what you told them, then tell them once more memorably.
"They laughed 'til they cried..." One of my memorable heroes, friend, never to be forgotten, George Shuttleworth, military newspaper guy, brilliant man. Had this raspy questioning voice about his blue eyed, six foot, 239 pound, round belly newspaper guy body; and, could make anybody react! George could get "Under your skin" better than any tick, ever! Yet George loved, loved(!), to laugh. We'd do that thing where you just start giggling on purpose and pretty soon- the bunch is laughing too? You've been there...
My talent, yes, it's God given, is gettin' under folks skin- "No Dana tell me it ain't so..." 'Fraid it's true "Young Padawan."(Star wars?) if you can be made hot under the collar, Dana will find the way. It's a miracle of God somebody hasn't taken me out? However...watch this, if you exercise the gift you get really good at finding the line where you'll keep living...but they won't forget?

Extremes- see them? Joy, mad, they extreme- oh you're gonna hate this one- Jesus handles them all, they're human emotions. How do you get learners(disciples) to go with you back to Jesus? To remember, recount and recertify?

This is a suggestion from a gifted heat maker, bring joy? The joy of the Lord is our strength...but, if you wanna ask them a heat it up question like "Oh- you weren't there?" Feel free to laugh a little as you realize often you weren’t? John says in concluding his gospel the world couldn’t contain the books...he lived daily with Christ but remembered, recounted and recertified only memorable parts.

Remembering 1

[01]Tasty is a lovely word, sounds near sweet? Tenderloin is one of our favorite meats, as a meal we eat it with Rice-a-Roni or just rice; usually I try to make some gravy to go with the rice, and we have a vegetable. There is almost always some left over meat that I
refrigerate in it's juice. A day or two later put that into a pan, as the frozen meat and juice heats up it fills the pan- then I'll add barbeque sauce to that and it boils down to the point the tenderloin falls apart and it's now pulled pork bbq for a marvelous sandwich. Tasty, it really, is.
 When Holy Spirit drew you from hell, usually by bringing you to  your senses, of how messed up you were? When Holy Spirit does  that, you are like a cooked meal that's been set aside in the refrigerator- you are preserved, but your function is stopped. Before, you were a meal, now, your just preserved. Holy Spirit gets hold of you, now you may feel some heat, you will be changing- becoming what that previous time in the cold jelled you for.
That moment, when you go from chilled meat to fresh bbq, what a deal- what a change. We could go into how all the atoms all get rearranged, but the math of nuclear physics, compared to spiritual make new from above, is boring. When that miracle happens you've no idea the powers involved, they are very ancient; very powerful, and as you emerge born from above- you are tasty, but you may not like what happens to a tasty sandwich...hint- a really good one goes where? Away...
Disciples who disciple disciples who disciple simply bring folk to the bread! A meal! Jesus. Then they bring them back, and back, forever- because here's a truth- Jesus has no beginning- He was, He has no middle, He is (in you), and
He will always be, no end- ever. We who love Him, find Him, many times, when we weren't looking for him. You decide to take up His cross, which is what following Him, learning of, discipling, means- you will discover so much about you, you never realized, and you'll find yourself wanting your friends to feel and know what you know, He's so tasty that there is nothing to match Him and the new birth from above- nothing!
Remembering this is vital, we remember, we recount, we recertify- here we draw up at the fundamental, remember being born from above.

















Remembering 2
[02]Caves spook some folks, they feel a sense of being surrounded and locked in, to many people that is very discomforting, but it's a tour "So what are we gonna do?" They stay with the group, getting more and more uncomfortable, until the moment at the lowest point in the cave and the guide says...
If you have asked Jesus to forgive you of your sins; He has. There are zero qualifiers on that, it ain't no test, it is what it is, His grace toward His creation that is being lied to by His enemy. So forgiving your sins- note that, plural- sins- all; is what Jesus does!

1Jn 1:9
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness
Oh my goodness the remembering of that fresh unburdened feeling! No weight on my shoulders of being a jerk, I'm not certain being a jerk is a sin, but I'm pretty sure folks who've observed me being a jerk, which seriously, it's so rare, but pretty certain they'd say "It's a sin Dana." That weight, all the lies, all the theft, all the obnoxious, rude crude and socially unacceptable, sin! Gone! Wow what a feeling.
At that moment the Holy Spirit is in you. Here's one gets theologians all twisted up, He's been there, quietly hinting to you that being so sinful is not feeling good, like it used to. He's been drawing you, and he uses disciples, learners about Jesus, if they're around, as help. Yet His most astonishing miraculous help, is still coming.
The lights in the cave go out. The tour guide says "This is the darkest spot on earth." You were queasy before, now, wow, the sweat is on your neck...
Oh the Bible- God's Word, it is a book that reads
you. You read it, and suddenly your in a garden, with a serpent, and Eve. You didn't really want to think about it, but them images are so different?
Then the lights come back on, and you begin to see, fear is  a weird lie? The walls didn't fall in, you're still together and now you see the beauty! Gorgeous colors, all natural via chemicals, so breathtaking, why were you ever scared?
My mentor to Christ was a dear friend I shall always remember, Al, and Al helped me get started reading the Bible in Mark, a short gospel (means good news) that really showed me Jesus. Reading Mark was like eating food to me, this Jesus was someone I wanted to get to know. Friends saw the change first- "Hey what's got into you, you ain't all gloomy." But friends we'll talk on much, as we explore remembering, recounting and recertifying, have no fear; this RRR thing is easy and even, fun.

As you leave the cave, sunlight seems oddly brighter, just a bit, and the cloudless blue sky? Now you've a story to share? It will be about how you...felt...it will be a memory...years down the highway of life you will rememberBible is a sweet word meaning sacred scriptures.
Truth is, it is much, much more. As we learn about learning about sharing with others about learning, you'll feel how natural it is. The Bible is a miracle. Jesus is that miracle it talks about. Remembering Jesus becomes so, so sweet in a disciple’s life and in the lives of those whom they serve and disciple with.






Remembering 3
[03]There are so many memories to your Christ experience.
Remembering is in a very unsalted way, forming your story of what Christ has done. Get who, what, when, where and possibly why or how, together so it makes sense. Now we season...
Dana you mix metaphors a bunch, we're writing, your using a cooking analogy?
Ah you caught me...throwin’ Jalapenos instead of pepper...and I'm in great company, the gospel is loaded with things that are like other things, the Bible has tons of metaphor...oops, that's a pun, huh?
A coin, in a fish’s mouth? To pay taxes? For both of them? See any metaphor there? Miracle aside, Peter a now fisher of men? Jesus now proving his earthly existence- ooh, here's one for history buffs, did the takers of taxes keep records?

(Matt 17:27)
What miracle, other than new birth, eating food that turns into energy, bones? Water rather than air? Both have Oxygen one way it's wet, the other we breathe, now can you begin to glimpse- open up your memories of Your Jesus, folks like the truth, Bible- means truth, and the day you listened to Jesus and started following His teaching, we'd say, that was pretty miraculous.































Remembering Add on
[04]Following Jesus means that you give up pride and also along with giving up pride, you accept the fact that your strength Is weakness and that in your weakness? Christ is made strong at your strongest point. You do not have the ability to forgive your sin, you just don't. In fact, we're sinners. Every person that reads this, and the writer; is a sinner. There is no such thing as a human being who is not a sinner. Once you get that settled, the next things become a little easier.
There are people who claim that they do not sin, and it might be true, they could get away with a day, maybe possibly even 2 or 3 without committing a heinous sin, but they're sinners, because every person that is born of women as Paul says, is the sinner. Now, what that means is we do not have any sort of luxury to lay back in judgement, say, "Well, you know what, I haven't done that." And so, "look at me, how good I am", that's pridefulness, and when we go to God in prayer, if we've got pridefulness in our heart, why?

Would we expect that God would hear that prayer? Other than to try to correct our pridefulness, let that sink in; if you've prayed pridefully to God as just about any question, is going to be guilty of having prayed a prideful prayer at some time in their thousands of prayers, so don't feel guilty about it just understand that it happens. You've overlooked the magnificence of being what Paul calls weak and Paul says, when I am at my weakest Christ is at his strongest, and that is, in fact I think about the simplest of things which are the most profound, because very often simple things are the most profound?  Einstein said, if you can't explain it to a sixth grader, you don't understand it well enough.

And I think about something that you know, if you're gonna, if you're gonna walk a mile in  someone else's Moccasins, to get an understanding of what their walk is like, you better get over your aversion to stinky feet. Because we've all got stinky feet at some point. 
In the process, none of us are sinless. Therefore, as sinners repenting and asking Christ to forgive us about sins let us go forth teaching others who are sinners that we can get into the act of washing their feet before a holy God, just as Christ washes all of our feet before a holy God, and we can say to that Amen Jesus, Come soon.


















Recount 1
[05]I want to take a moment of your time to get into the idea that remembering is just sharing with friends, your experiences with Jesus.
Recounting is actually a little bit different matter, because now you're getting into, not that Jesus has done miracles in your life, but how many and and when. And you know what all was involved in them? The difference between remembering and recounting is that in remembering you're bringing it to      
recollection, you're trying to remember what was going on.
In recounting, you're trying to number if you will the kinds and items that took place. In other words, how many times have I been healed by Jesus?
Well, I've had a hip surgery. I’ve had a neck surgery, I've had, you know; what I'm saying I've been to the doctor numerous times. We tend to discount those miracles, we shouldn't they're for real? How would I even have that doctor if it weren't Christ? How would I even have the unction to go to a doctor if it weren't for Christ, and how would that process be completed, if it weren't for the validity of the Holy Spirit operating in my life, so when I recount those times it's also, yes, it's also a process of remembering, but it's more a process of recounting.
And what happens with this; is it brings a smile to your face because you realize it, it wasn't just one time that Jesus did something it's been as you get down to it every single minute of every single day of your life.






























Recount 2
[06]So when we go through the process of recounting, it's bringing back to the forefront of your active mind from wherever you've had the information kept. Actual miracles that took place.
An example.
I had spinal stenosis so bad that my hands were all crinkling up. I almost couldn't move, had difficulty walking. It was getting to the point where I nearly couldn't feed myself.
I went to my local doctor and she said, "Dana, you need to see an expert on the spine  because there's something going on, and I'm not, I'm not that trained, they need to  look at you. And so I'm going to recommend you to the spine institute, but I'm also  gonna tell you that they've got about a 3 month or 6 months waiting list, it's hard to  get in there, but we're gonna call them and see what we can do." I said "Fine. You  know, it's happening. I'm in a great deal of pain." I was in so much pain it was unreal, I was walking around my house complaining, constantly to Jesus, this pain         hurts. I hurt. Why hurt, why is this happening? What's going on?

I was miserable, should a Christian ever be there and actually, in recounting, I'm bringing this up to the forefront of my mind, because you and I both know the answer to that is; no! God doesn't waste a hurt. I love that preacher, Robby Gallaty says that out at Long Hollow church, he said "God doesn't waste a hurt!" Now, that's not his original thing. I could get who he sourced it to, but He (God) doesn't, God doesn't waste a hurt.
Tell you, I'm sure; something else with you, about recounting. It's good to know The Times that you've been in pain and suffered. Because that attests to the fact that you can. It's important to understand that he doesn't desert you. God doesn't leave you, Jesus doesn't leave you. So I got referred to the spine institute. But nothing was happening. Couple weeks went by.
I was still walking around my house. Complaining to Jesus until finally, one Sunday morning, my wife said, I'm going on to church. I said, I'm not going to go, I'm hurt and too bad. I can't do it. I'm just not gonna do it, she went on and went to church anyway, what's that tell ya?
I'm in the front room, which is like a family meeting room, and I'm in front of a big plate glass window, and I'm looking out at nature, and I'm realizing, now, this is the Holy Spirit working within me, I'm realizing you've been doing nothing but griping and complaining and you know, good and well, that's not what you're supposed to do, what is your pain compared to the cross? Come on, Dana? And so I said, to Jesus, “Lord, I apologize I'm; look, I'm tired of listening to me whine. I know you've gotta be tired of listening me whine, even though you never in your love and grace would ever get tired of listening to me whinin' but Ya gotta be, so you know what I'm going to do, I'm going to praise your holy name Jesus in the midst of pain, I'm going to praise Your holy name. “Now Watch this!
Monday afternoon, the next day. Doctor Utter from the spine institute called and said, “I wanna see you in my office. I've seen a copy of your x-rays that your doctor sent over and I want to see you in my office.”
“Yeah”, I said “later on in the week”, he said, “no this afternoon”. So my wife had to take off, we had to go down there, we go to his office. He says, I want to do some more x-rays, he did those He said, “I've looked at them,” now its about 4 o'clock, he says “you need surgery and you need it right away”, he said, “I'm going to operate on you this week, I'm gonna operate on you Friday!”
Now I'm gonna conclude this Dr. Utter story in the next segment of recounting, but that's a miracle that happened in that this very professional, very skilled, very highly skilled surgeon. Got in touch with me the day after I had prayed praise to your name Christ in the midst of my pain, now think about recounting, because you're recalling to your mind. The Times of Jesus has done things for you that are just Inexplicably great when we think about them, even though they involve pain, and now we'll move on to another segment about recounting, but this one is about the miracle of being in touch with them after praising Christ.













































Recount 3
[07]Recounting a miracle, it isn't as difficult as it sounds as long as you're willing to own up to the fact that sometimes things happen, that you really cannot logically explain. The week that doctor Utter said that he wanted to operate on me was on a Monday afternoon. He said he wanted to operate on me on a Friday.
I think that Tuesday, I was beginning to think about this neck surgery thing, and I was beginning to wonder if it really had to happen and I was beginning to get scared, and I had thoughts come into my mind. “What if he has a bad day? What if he sneezes? What if his wife argued with him? What if he's upset? What if he drops this, what if he does that what if it goes wrong?”
And I got I got to the point where I called him. And I said, “Dr. Utter, I don't want to do this. I don't want to go through with this. It’s scaring me,” and he said, “Dana, you do not have to have this surgery, but if you don't have this surgery in about 3 to 6 months, I will see you somewhere in an emergency room because your condition is not going to get better without this surgery.” He said, “I understand that you are a little scared,” he said, “let me share this with you. I am board certified over 8 times (I think he said) it was with the Mayo clinic I am board certified in numerous states and here in Louisiana,” and he said, “I've got to tell you that I've done this surgery hundreds of times With a 98% success rate, and he said, in the 2% weren't totally successful Dana, the people were still relatively healed. It just wasn't perfect as I wanted it to be.”
And I thought, “I gotta trust this guy, anybody that would talk to me like that, I gotta trust him.” So that Friday we went in.
We had the surgery. I'm gonna tell you that after the rehabilitation process, I was back able to use my hands and type, I had no more of the of the pain of my nerves, not working like they were supposed to, and I could go back to basically functioning as if though I had not had the situation with my spine before. I can't begin to explain to you how that it gets into your head, a fear of a process that was going to come out good but we are going to talk about that.
Because recounting is one way to apply a salve or a balm that the Bible talks about that is, it is going to calm your fears by faith, God doesn't want us to live in fear. If Jesus doesn't like his disciples being fearful, the Holy Spirit in you wants you to dwell as a person who dwells by faith, not by fear, and let me tell you after that surgery. And after that success and after having had my health      restored, you better believe that I am thanking Jesus Christ, I am     thanking God, almighty. For that miracle, it took place.
















Recount 4
[08]There is a church called 2819. The pastor’s a fellow named, think Philip Anthony Mitchell. He preaches as close to the bone about the reality of the power of God and our savior, Jesus Christ, to forgive us, of all sins, to forgive me, of all my sins, and you, of all your sins, that we don't need to be fake with Him.
We don't need to be plastic with Jesus, we don't need to be hidden with Him. He came and He suffered, and He died on the cross so that you and I could have freedom to go into a prayer   closet, and to talk to him about things that are real to us and things that're real to others. The day is going to come when everything that we've done will be shouted from the rooftops when I read that in the New Testament.  (Luke 12:3) It freaked me out, man, cause personally,

I thought my past was hidden, my past sins were hidden, all the wrongs that I had done, I thought they were all hidden, nobody knew.  Little did I know they've all done them too, we're all sinners. How are we forgiven?

By the grace of God through faith and the blood of Jesus Christ our holy sacrifice on the cross. Now the important aspect of that is this; most of the time, as we grow through life, and we learn through life, it doesn't matter what age you're at. Whatever age you're at, you are experiencing certain sins that occur with that age, they just occur with that age. Trust me at 70 one of the problems that a 70-year-old has is devotion and devotion to prayer. What some of the problems that teenagers have; have to do with socialization and how to get along and how to quit stabbing each other in the back, and then there are other more personal sins. Sin is sin it literally means missing the mark of God.
Believe me when I share with you that we've missed the mark of God but that doesn't mean that we can't have a restored relationship with God. And when we recount the miracle of the new birth, in your life, when you ask Jesus to forgive you of your sins plural, as we've discussed, that's done, that's over that's stamped. So when you sin again and you go into your closet and you say, Jesus, I lied, I lied, I lied to Mike, I shouldn't have lied to Mike. Mike's gonna get hurt cause I lied, I need to make this right. Holy Spirit's going to say you know you can make it right, go and take him that money that you lie, stole from him, and make it right.
Now this is where wisdom comes in, don't just go off getting nuts about restoration and the ministry of restoring broken relationships without wisdom. And that's why we're doing this series, that's why we're talking so heavily about recounting.
Thank you for listening. Thank you for taking the time to consider that all of our sins are forgiven. So we don't need to be dishonest with Jesus about what we need to have happened in our life; so that our life can have some release to preach the gospel. And to share the good news of Jesus Christ with our friends and loved ones.











Recertify 1
[09]My first exposure to the term certify came when I was  preparing to teach the book of Romans, and I began to look at  this term that crops up in Romans 9:22 Romans, 9:23, It shows  up in Romans 16:26, now it's actually translated as certify in  Galatians 1:11. Says this, but I certify you brethren, that the  gospel, which was preached of me, is not after man, that's  Galatians 1:11. I ran into it in Romans, 9:22 "What if God,  willing to shew his wrath,(gnorizo, pronounced nor-ee-zo) endured with much long-suffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction." He's talking about those who were outside the Kingdom of God, who are fitted to wrath, for example, the Egyptians who had; they had a choice continually.
Now, you say, well, how did the Egyptians have a choice? It was Pharaoh, making the choice at any point, if Pharaoh said, “You know, what Moses, I'm going to, I'm going to go along with you. We're going to really rethink all of these things that we've done, and we're going to convert, to this Yahweh (pronounced Yawway), that you're talking about, and we're going to, we're gonna really listen to you." But if at any point Pharaoh, had done that, do you think that Egypt and the Egyptians would have eventually over time converted and become god-fearing? Now they wouldn't be Christians yet? This is way back in the Old Testament times with Moses. But what if God willing to show his wrath and make his power known, I mean, he definitely made his power known to Pharaoh, he definitely made his power known to the Egyptians, and yet They did not convert.

Now, you say, "Well, you know, Dana, that's an Old Testament example," but here's what to think about. Those Egyptians. Had an opportunity to convert, if you saw those things, and you heard what they heard about the fact that this God of these Jews is the one who's doing all of these things, what would you do?
Now, you know that that sounds humorous, but if you think about people that you share with today, what do they do? We say to someone you know, you're a very pleasant person. You must be a Christian? You must belong to a church somewhere? They go, Nope, sure, don't; Don't see the need in it. Okay, when they make that response to you, what they're saying is they've seen things, they're aware of the fact that God exists.
But they don't want to go down that highway of following Christ. I believe in most people that are mostly dedicated to sinning hearts, the idea is I don't want to serve a Christ who's going to cut into my sins he's gonna cut into my lifestyle, etc.
So Paul in Galatians 1:11 begins by talking to the people who want to say that the only thing that he's doing is preaching a gospel that's going to edify himself and others, and it's only going to raise them up to the lowering of other people.
And so he says this, but I certify, you brethren, that the gospel, which was preached of me, is not after man. Okay, it's important to note when Paul is saying this about certifying, what we're talking about is recertifying, when you were born again, the Holy Spirit came into you.
You have now a testimony of that experience and what  we like to talk about and what we like to share is how  do you share that experience with someone so that  they want to come to know this Jesus who has altered  your life? And believe me people who knew me, when I  was much younger, we won't go into my guts and glory, you know, testimony at this point, but people 
who knew me in the past. Would absolutely tell you yeah, Dana has changed. And he's changed huge. And I can promise you that God took a worthless individual who could not be trusted and transformed him into an individual who is often trusted and can be trusted, so that is a certification that now I recertify, how do we do that? By sharing with you? And trying to teach you how to make disciples, we need to honor the great commission. Go and teach and do that in the name of our Jesus, and we're going to talk about that in recertifying.
Recertify 2
[10]Recertify is an idea that is inclusive in life. So you may hear some background noises in this recording, and we're leaving those in there on purpose. This is being recorded at my house out in my backyard.
There's lots of noise going on, and that's life; there is lots of noise in life. There's lots of noises right now in the realm of Christianity. In the realm of religion in the realm of worship. By noise, I mean, whenever you have 2 or 3 or 4 or more people, saying something about their particular point or agenda regarding what it is that they believe is the right thing to do.

If they each understand letting the other one, speak and when to stop speaking then you can make sense out of what they're saying, but if all 4 speak at one time, obviously, it's gonna just sound like noise. That's what I mean by noise, there's a lot of noise and what is that? The internet. Has brought with it a creative tool for transmitting ideas that's never existed before you're making use of one of those which is an internet blog tool.
Which is a way of writing things, in this instance, we're actually saying things and then later on, we're going to go to audio visual. I've tried to spare you that cause I'm a 70-year-old man and anything that was beautiful about me when I was young has since passed on, but the truth of the matter is recertifying is coming to a point where you get first of all, honest with Jesus. Second of all honest with other people about worshipping Jesus. Then third of all trying to bring those people along to a point where you're actually discipling them.
In a process of coming to Jesus, letting the Holy Spirit lead you and guide you and direct you in that process that's recertifying , but it has to be genuine. It has to be a part of life. It has to be holistic, not exclusive. Or rather. I would think that it would be better to say it should be holistic or it ought to be holistic. Rather than exclusive and isolating and that's difficult. In
Christianity, there is a certain point of isolation. Jesus did say “I am the truth, the way, the life no one comes unto the father but by me.” One of the things that I've often noted to people in discussing that is how do you see him appearing when he's saying that? Do you think he's smiling, or do you think there may be an element of sadness in that? And that he knows that he's excluding some? Or is there an element of deeper joy in that?
And that he realities that only true disciples who really want to learn and associate and be a part of relating to him, can be a part of what Christ is about? And is that a bad thing, so these are recertifying questions that you're going to deal with is you grow deeper and deeper in learning to rely upon the Holy Spirit. That's really what recertifying is about. It's a point of bringing what you remember and what you recount, into a process of coming back to primarily being a disciple of Jesus.












Recertify 3
[11]It is interesting how powerful God is. He is all-powerful. He is Elohim,  almighty God, he's singular. There is only one God. We can't in our  Most vivid attempts at being limitless, even begin to imagine The  beginning of a limitless, all-knowing power that is God and the  interesting thing is, he defines himself through Jesus as truth and  light and love.
Parts of our existence that we can come into contact with and know, maybe that was a very large part of messiah coming when he did? Luke, says in the fullness of time, maybe a very large part of that was to give us some human connection. The Holy Spirit is in you when you're born again, he is showing you and talking with you and living within you about the things that you know that you shouldn't do as Paul says, but the things that you should do, you don't do; so you're constantly moving in a direction forward. Paul says “this one thing I know forgetting the past. I move forward to the high calling of Christ to the high calling of God in Jesus Christ.” It is, without a doubt a life that is abundant, which is what Jesus said, “I came to give you life and that more abundantly now.”
Recertifying, you're sharing that. You're sharing that with friends, it's not unnatural. My simple point is the reason that there aren't a lot of new births taking place in the Christian communities, it's because Christians have made sharing the gospel and and working with disciples so much more difficult than it needs to be.
These are just friends. These are just people that, you know, these  are people that you hang out with, not all of them are gonna be  Christians. And the ones that aren't Christians, you don't want to  go after them with something like some programmed, canned  speech, like the Roman road or witnessing and evangelism or  Blackwell's, "Discovering God;" because then what you do is you  just turn them off. Instead what you want to learn to try to do is to turn them on, and there are literally tons of programs with professional PhD’s in the art of how to get along with people, how to influence and win people? Norman Vincent Peale, himself a minister, is famous for "How to win friends and influence people." And if you've never read that book, read that book, it will help you. Pull him up online, if you can find him and listen to him, talk about it.
Listen to people who know about how to influence and please people and turn people on. And when you do that, if you could get to the point where they trust you if you can get to the point where they think you're not going to jump all over them and wipe 'em out with all your logic about being born again and not wanted to go to hell. Then you'll be able to have a friend that you can bring to Jesus. Introduce to Jesus. Pray with, learn Bible study together with? If that person gets born again and the Holy Spirit gets inside them their Bible study will be enriched. Their prayer life will be enriched and you will have found a brother or sister in Christ.














Recertify 4

[12]Not a project!

Remember recount, recertify it's not a project. You can't do it as a  project when you remember that's not a project. Those are  memories, those are things that took place in your past; now; the  accuser, will want you to remember sins of your past, and that's  how, you know, that it's the accuser, they get reinforced.
Because that cannot be the voice of the Holy Spirit. Why? Because your sins, if you ask Jesus to forgive you of them are gone, they're gone. Now, you say, “well, Dana, that's not even real, because they still exist, I still remember them.” True, and we are talking about remembering, but the accuser will bring them up, to point them out to you as things that you did, that were wrong.
The Holy Spirit will show you that those are things, that Christ has forgiven you of. So then we talk about recounting; well, how about recounting the level of forgiveness that was involved in that?
And this is what you see the Old Testament patriarch's doing that. I hope someday we'll get to discuss. They literally built upon their bad experiences; their simple experiences where God forgave them. That's the Old Testament. In the New Testament grace is enormous. It is enormous!
When you read Paul standing before the governor or standing before the King testifying about what's happening to him, where people were trying to kill him. You don't hear Paul recounting his failures. Rather, what does he testify about? The significance of the impact of Jesus on his life, when he was knocked to his knees in the desert? And Jesus asked the question of why he was fighting against Jesus.
Recertification isn't a project. It's not a project. It is, I hate to use the term lifestyle; but it is a lifestyle because what you're putting forth is your life. You don't get another today. I don't get another today the only today that I have is now Tomorrow. It will be gone, it will be written as history, which hopefully the accuser, won't be able to use to point out to me, what a loss that was?
So that I get to point out to him, that Christ taught again, that was because when I'm at my weakest Jesus is at his strongest. Obviously, not admitting that that has to be; or I'm out of grace, and I'm never going to be out of grace, why, because grace overcomes the multitude of sins that I'm capable of doing without even thinking about it. That's how inconsiderate I am as a follower of Christ, and I freely admit it, and I am not ashamed of it. But the truth is, Jesus response, he won't let me be ashamed of it, because what does he tell me?
Stand up? Make disciples teach them. Baptize them in the name of the father of the son and the Holy Spirit. Look, recertification means that you're not doing a project, you're living your life for Christ.










Chapter One We Battle For Christ
First thoughts
[13]There is something going on today in our culture that is so destructive. And so contemptible and so dangerous, and yet so hidden that the maliciousness of it is subtle, so subtle?
Matthew wrote in his gospel that Jesus said don't fear them which killed the body. But rather fear the one who can destroy both. You know, don't fear those which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear Him, which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell. Now That's Matthew 10: 28.

That's not our normal perspective. Oh, thanks to our culture today, you have a very pervasive, let's say preaching of the God of love, which is true, that's how God defines Himself, but YehWeh, JosHua, Elohim; that God; said in the Old Testament to the Prophets, that his ways aren't our ways. His thoughts aren't our thoughts. He's as far distant, from the way that we humans are as is an unimaginably distant way; unavailable thought we can't conceive of God, the Father.
Now, when Jesus came as a man on earth, that's an entirely different a set of circumstances. But what's happened is, we have allowed culturism, cultural teaching a cultural (I don't know) wanting to get along with everybody creep into the truth.
And the truth is, the truth, when Moses was confronted with a Bush that didn't burn it didn't make any sense to him, but he knew that he had been invited. "Come up here", you know, when you read that, it's not like Moses went toward the fire because he felt like being burned that day. A Voice called him and said, "come up here; Now take off your shoes, because the ground that you're standing on is holy ground. Take off your sandals, the ground that you're standing on is holy ground. Connect,with me, who speaks to you from a Bush that doesn't burn! Fire that doesn't consume fire, yet it allows the entity to still exist? 

The devil does not have that power. He is a deceiver, not a creator. God creates. God has the ability to do that; which anyone else anywhere else by any other means would call impossible! To God it's possible. We observe such things and all of such things and call them miracles. satan, cannot to do such things, he only lies; and lies to people, and this malicious lie, it's going out into our culture. "I'm becoming more and more popular. You don't have to worry about this pleasing God, because you're covered under the grace of God."
And while I so totally agree with Philip Yancey in his book. "What's so amazing about grace?" There's also this converging point where you don't want to get on the wrong side of grace. You want to believe and see and understand grace for what grace is. Grace is, miraculous, your salvation, it is miraculous. Your ability to serve God is miraculous. Your ability to worship is miraculous. You are given a gift.
Don't trample it underfoot I think the author of Hebrews put it that way, don't fall into the arms of an angry God, I believe the author of Hebrews writes that also, we need to become aware of where we are.
We are in the presence of a holy God. And when we talk about and share with others, and share with those that we love and are friends of ours about discipling, which is bringing learners disciples this, back to Jesus back to Jesus back to Jesus, get back to what he says, but back to what he truly said. "And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul, but rather fear him, which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell." Matt 10:28 We need to get lined up; when we talk about making disciples and we talk about remembering and recounting and recertifying, we need to understand that we're in a process; that is vitally important to the body of Christ, or else we wouldn't be in that process. Would we?
Remember
[14]I promise you, in the future, we're going to go to video, but  I’m honestly trying to spare you having to see this face. It's bad enough to get old. It's way worse to have all of these wrinkles implemented by God to humble you; anyway, Hey; that and the fact that it used to have hair, and now it just has air.

So Making disciples using a process of remembering recounting and recertifying, you could almost substitute the term retelling for recertifying?
But certify is used in the New Testament, and I thought Paul using it was just a real kind of a shocker, but a real testimonial to how thoughtful Paul had become? How about the depth of what it means to work with people in bringing them back to Jesus continually? (Galatians 1:11)
And we are really focusing in this first chapter on remembering and the fact that remembrances have an odd characteristic to them, and that characteristic is this, if you remember something in a good frame of reference.
The tendency is almost for it to be laid back into a more distant place, then those things which are not pleasant, which are like unpleasant, but they come to the forefront.
I guess what I'm saying is we tend to focus upon those things that impact most upon us emotionally, and it seems like emotionally, we're impacted on negatively the majority of the time. Now I may be mistaken about this.
It may be a mistake of my own personal perceptions, and it may be that when you have personal perceptions, they get projected onto other people from the things that you remember, you may have to listen to that again, I would hope, but that's my idea is that in remembering
You want to remember at least I want to remember the times when I have felt Jesus closest to me, Jesus walking and walking in and my being with Him trying to be in step with Him, not walking ahead of Him, not walking behind Him, but a little bit behind Him, you never want to try to walk equal with the master, because that's not going to ever happen.
But also really isn't our goal as a Christian to try to be like Christ, it's with the realization that we cannot be like Christ so with the realization, but I want to wash His feet. I want to wash His feet. Shouldn't we want to wash each other’s feet? How precious is the love of Jesus?

















Context
[15]Remember, not just that God blesses us, but remember the various ways that God blesses us and then remember that with the idea of passing that on. 
One of my all time favorite companions was a fabulous Poodle by the name of Sophie, she was absolutely amazing, she seemed to always be  smiling and tolerating our human ways and she was beautiful, because  she would be clear across the field of tall green grass and she would see  me come out on the; Tarmac, and she would just come running,  bounding across that field. And you remember that this beautiful coal, black, beautiful poodle, and she would just come bowling in the sun  with the Christ joy, that's a visual that you remember with the sunlight, the just; the gaiety of her presence.
Remember, not just that God blesses us, but remember the flavorings of the blessings. Remember the power of the blessings. Remember the moments of the blessings?
Remember the people. God blesses us with people God blesses us with fellowship. God blesses us with others in a culture. Fore today, we're losing the context of fellowship, we're becoming almost stand apart, People. Where we don't get together and visit, like we used to get together and visit.  It has to almost have become a forced issue.
It's interesting that the writer of Hebrew says, don't forsake, the    assembling of yourselves together, as some have done? Already back  then in the first century. They were already starting to have people who  would stand off officially; stay apart from the synagogue area, stay apart from the way; stay apart from the people who were worshipping.

So remember to not allow yourself to go into that way of being to go into that type of lifestyle. Now, the other important aspect of remembering the people as well as all of the things around them is this idea of context. Because if you lose context in life, you for certain will have real difficulty trying to to learn context in terms of the word of God. The Logos, the word of God, the word became Flesh and dwelt among us, the Bible, the Bible, the book that reads you, as you read it, get the word into you, get the Logos into you, get the Bible; until you get Jesus The Logos into you, by remembering Context.





















Five W’s = WWWWW 
[16]One of the hardest things to keep in mind when you're talking about a  process of remembering, especially when it comes to discipling,  bringing people to Jesus, bringing them back to Jesus; disciples  learners, they may apply to you, they may attach to you because you;  and they; get along they're your friends. They're your loved ones, they're your family, they're the people close to you. They're the people that know that you sin. They're the people that have seen your sin, they know your secrets that you don't want other people to know.
But guess what, Jesus said ultimately, they're going to be shouted from the rooftops, so the idea that you need to think that you can keep anything secret from God is a joke but that you would keep anything secret from Jesus, is a worst kind of cynical reprise by the accuser! The devil who would love for you not to confess your sin to Christ. If he can convince you the confessing your sin to Christ and repenting is not a worthwhile cause? Is not a worthwhile journey, is not a worthwhile thing to devote your daily prayer to. In the morning, too. And all day, throughout the day, and in the evening, when you put the Amen on it. I love what pastor Robbie Gallaty of Long Hollow church said, he said; he felt like Paul woke up in the morning and began the prayer with thank you, Jesus good morning, Lord, thank you Jesus and began his confessional journey for the day and then ended it that evening with an Amen.
Now, that's a rough paraphrase of what pastor Gallaty said, and I don't wanna misquote him, but you should really check out the forgotten Jesus podcast, it is an amazing; amazing podcast! By a scholar that while he likes Wes Huff. Huff the evangelistic director for Canada and I think most of us Christians have Begun to accept that Dr. Huff is an amazing human being an amazing historical level scholar; like Chad Bird, the scholar in residence at Midwest, a Lutheran seminary, or Robbie Gallaty, the pastor of Long Hollow Baptist church. Let's not let Robby Gallaty sell himself short, this is a man who has been mentored by David Platt, best selling author of "Radical," David Platt is the man who has put together incredible ministries reaching millions of people. Dr. Gallaty, is a scholar worth paying attention to.

In listening to, and one of the things that you learn in remembering about what you have been taught; is who taught it to you? Where were you, when you learned it? Who was it that was doing the teaching? What was the teaching about and then why, and really when you start to put together, who when where, why about any particular topic or subject that you've been instructed in by a Rabbi or a similar level leader; along the lines of that level of scholar.
Then you're going to discover that it starts to dig deep into the soul, not only of you, but of those whom you want to bring back to Christ. Disciples. So remember bear in mind that you have people that look at you and look to you and listen to you and pay attention to them, they need your attention, they need you to pay attention to them. They need to know that you care and love them, they need to know that no matter what you forgive them, because what are they going to do that you haven't done worse of; in terms of sin?
What do you have to forgive them of; or yourself of; in terms of sins that the accuser would love to keep you from doing so. Remember that our enemy as Peter says, is like a roaring lion, he's not talked about, like some clever being, who knows how to create lies over millions of years. This enemy has perfected its craft.
So believe me, when I share with you, the remembering is absolutely critical to getting with your disciples and keeping them coming back to Jesus back to Jesus. Why? Because our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ went to the cross and shed his blood for the remission of our sins and our being able to be forgiven about our sins, and to be members of the Kingdom of God! Did not do so in vain.
Paradigms 
[17]So now we come to the matter of remember when it comes to paradigms. Paradigms are a very interesting set of  presumptions. They are what we believe to be true, even  though we have no cognizance of why we believe it, to be  true. We just accept it, to be true, like fiat currency, a dollar  bill, we believe that a dollar bill has a dollars value when we  buy, for example, half a piece of bubblegum, today in 2025. For a 1$, because a dollar used to buy us about 10 pieces of bubble gum, they were a dime a piece, today; it will buy about half a piece of bubble gum. And inflation is out of control.
Meanwhile, what do we have going on in terms of paradigms, we have beliefs, for example. That certain things are the way that they are, and that's the way they're always going to be. None of that, according to the Bible is real because, according to the Bible, God is in charge. And God is not going to be
mocked, and God will have the final say, because God's, God! So when it comes to paradigms, when it comes to disciples, the important thing about paradigms probably is to bring them back to Jesus.
Back to Jesus back to Jesus back to the teachings, in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John; back to the explosive events of Acts, back to the explosive events of Paul's conversion on the Damascus road. Back to the letters of Paul, the theology of what it means to be the church and the body of Christ bring them back.
To being disciples in the body of Christ, who look for people that they like; who look for people that they love; who look for people that they can relate to, so that they can talk to them about what it means to follow and be a learner. That's what the word disciple means a learner of Jesus, what does it mean to be a learner of Jesus?
It means to get into the word. John says that the word became flesh  and dwelt among us. That is a very specific description of what  happened with Jesus. He is the word, he is the word of God. He is  the Bible in flesh. Now the Bible is a book that when you read it, it  reads you. So how's that for a paradigm? When we talk about paradigms, things that we believe to be true, without even really understanding why we believe that they are true. Those are paradigms and paradigms govern our conduct in our lives.
Jesus said our paradigms are to be what Jesus said are paradigms. In a sermon on the mount, which we're gonna go into, because He talks about something called the beatitudes, and so when you're working with disciples, you want to understand paradigms, what are their paradigms, what do they believe, and they need to know that you want to know what their paradigms are? Sometimes that means that you're gonna have to go into dark places. Sometimes that means you're going to have to understand some things that aren't comfortable for you to understand. But the point is they're people that you are bringing back to Jesus, to learn about Jesus and where do you do that at? In the word that became flesh and dwelled among us.












Feedback
[18]A popular phrase in our culture, 2025 is feedback, which is, I guess responding to inquiries or answering questions or stating an opinion about a situation, I bet you're in. So when we're talking about disciples and we're talking about, remember; remember? The Times When feedback was positive for you? Remember the times when feedback was negative for you and remember the times when someone gave you feedback that was just extremely useful and remember the times when people gave you feedback, but it was useless.

What feedback really worked for you, what feedback did something for  you that was beneficial? And what feedback did something for you that  wasn't worth 2 cents in a spit storm? Feedback in a sense is essential  in communication if instruction is all one way, but then it really isn't  working? 


Remember that they were out in the desert and Jesus was  talking with the disciples and he had just told Peter, how good they had done and how proud he was of this rock like faith that he had? And then Peter spouted off about Jesus, in a way that Jesus knew it was the devil inside of Peter and he turned around and what did He say to Peter, “get behind me Satan?” And you know, to look at Peter and say that, after just having been in that high point, do you think that was really beneficial feedback?
Now, before you say, no; stop and think, do you think Peter forgot that? Jesus and Peter are talking at the last supper and Jesus says Peter, yeah, I'm telling you before this? Night's over. Before the cock crows, you're gonna 3 times say you don't even know me, you're gonna deny me 3 times you're gonna say you don't even know me? Peter was absolutely destroyed by that because he denied that it could happen, not me. Lord, I will never deny you. And yet, what happened? Do you think that was feedback that Peter ever forgot. Was it useful feedback?

Um, look, I guess what? I'm getting at is this. I didn't like all The Times that Dr. Taylor it said something to me that was just way over my head in terms of depth in terms of the Bible in terms of worship. But later on it would come ringing back to me and I loved Dr. Taylor because his teaching method was presence and feedback, he stayed after class to talk and to find out what we felt and to ask us questions about how we felt. Now let's bring this quickly forward to your learners.
Your disciples that you're carrying back to Jesus back to Jesus back to Jesus. The feedback that you give them. The things that you say to them are incredibly important, but remember that there is a way to say things and a way to not say things. So say them the way that you know that you want them to be said so that your learner can benefit from them in the most high way? I would say, say to them, like you're talking to Jesus, I think, that's what Paul says in Ephesians, when he's talking to husbands about wives and when I finally let that sink into my life, my wife can tell you in the last few years I've not communicated with her like I did previously, why? Because I look at her and I see Jesus, and I wouldn't dare spout off to the master, like, I used to sometimes do with her.
Think about it and remember that your disciples love you as much as you love them. We hope let's all love one another. For what was our Lord's command that we would be known? How? By the way, that we love one another.



Purpose
[19]Purpose. Remember with purpose — remember purpose. Remember that not only does your life, your witness, and your helping people become better learners, being taken back to Jesus has a purpose. But there is a purpose behind that purpose. Which is that there is an overall, overarching purpose that is taking place.
 We’ve all heard the mysterious tales — or shall we say truths, as the best  description — from Isaiah of the war in heaven. Michael and the angels,  and in the Revelation of Christ, this is going on. We see these massive  displays of power. And we know that at one time, Lucifer and a third of his  angelic host turned against God and were thrown down to earth. We know  they are eternal beings. We know they don’t just go away. Where are they? 
Well, there are lots of mysteries in the Bible. There are lots of mysteries in worshiping God. There are lots of mysteries in loving, in worshiping, in asking forgiveness. Human beings confessing and repenting with Christ — so that His blood can cover our sins, and we can be born again, and we can be born into the Kingdom of God. It’s a mystery. But remembering purpose is something necessary. Something that needs to be ongoing.
One of the things you must never let happen is this: don’t let people who can’t see past the end of their noses steal your purpose. Don’t let them drag you down to a lower level of excitement, faith, or joy. We are to be encouraging and supporting each other as we minister and disciple others. Because that is our purpose, is it not? Is it not our purpose to be supportive, to be encouraging, to be uplifting one another
in the name of Jesus? Not cutting each other down. Not negatively destroying one another. Not coming after someone with some negative impression or feelings or things we believe we’re right about and think we have the right to say. No — sometimes we have to push into remembering purpose, and understand that the purpose of Jesus, among many others, is that we would learn to be seeds. Seeds that are going to have to die. Seeds that are going to have to germinate in order to bring forth other seeds. And often, that process is not without pain.
So your disciples need to know not only that you love them, not only that you care about them, not only that you’re involved with them, not only that they matter to you, and not only that they matter to the body of Christ — but that you are encouraging them to keep on with the purpose of what it is Christ has called them toward. Paul called it the grand calling of the gospel of Jesus Christ heavenward toward God. And I think that’s a pretty powerful prescription, don’t you?
















Age & Memory
[20]Memory is a strange thing. It’s attached to emotions, and as you age and experience life again and again, memory begins to change. It tends to drift toward certain objective events that, in the past, felt significant, and it tends to float toward the ones you want to remember. Memory is odd.
In people, memory becomes even stranger as aging and experience pile up across a lifetime. A thirty-year-old may have a sharp recollection of things from their teenage years. By forty, the mind starts to blur the edges, remembering more of the positive outcomes than the negative. At fifty, memory becomes more selective, pushing away things that weren’t pleasant, though some of them still remain and cannot be erased. By sixty, memory has become almost entirely selective.
A person remembers what they choose to remember, and the rest is pushed back into the recesses of the mind, where it no longer functions in daily thought. Remembering is vitally important to staying in touch with Jesus Christ. When you read the Word of God, and the Word reads you, that is an experience.
And if you cannot recall that experience, if you cannot bring it to mind, then what value does it hold for others when you share it? Discipleship is about sharing experience. It is about passing along what you have lived. The feel of the day, the flavor of the morning—the sun burning, the air sharp, people moving about— what really happened in that moment? Because there is always a difference between what you perceive and what someone else perceives.
Three people can witness the same accident and give three different accounts of how it happened. Our perceptions do not perfectly overlap. But there is one book where the witness is interwoven and the testimony stands as one—the Bible.
In Scripture, over sixty-eight thousand ideas, words, and concepts are interlinked, all connected before “networking” or “interconnecting” were even part of human speech. The Bible is powerful in that way. But it becomes even more powerful when you read it and know it speaks to you. You realize: this is true.
This Jesus, this Word made flesh, came and died for
me so that I might be born again, and so that I might bring others to know Him. That is powerful.


















Chapter Two
Recount Intro
[21]The impossibility of recounting your Christian experience makes an idea about recount very susceptible to criticism. After all, when King David took an unnecessary census in the Old Testament, look at what followed behind that. Recounting is not that kind of taking a census. Rather, recounting is looking realistically at what has taken place, in terms of the many and various things that you can actually recall and recount.
These things have developed you into the kind of disciple maker that you are today. If you are not a disciple maker, recounting will sometimes give you that deep breath that says, “These things has my Lord Christ done for me. How dare I not listen to His command to make disciples?” It can be a centering kind of objective.
The other thing about recounting that we want to get out of the way at the front end is that this is not just remembering. Remembering is sweet—it has the flavors of the event, the ideas in the event, the people in the event. Recounting has Christ in the event. You see Jesus moving and walking in your life; you actually see Jesus, if you will, among the lamp-stands that represent the potential ministry of your life.
That’s how John saw Him—amongst the church, in the church, being involved with the church. And that’s how I believe we would properly interpret what John says about his encounter with Jesus on the Isle of Patmos, and how it changed him. Christ had a mission for him that John wasn’t aware of: He wanted him to write letters to the churches.
It would be hard to do that on an island like Patmos—a mining island. I’m not sure there was a lot of papyri laying around to be used. So in some sense, my belief is either Pastor Gallaty, Robby Gallaty of Long Hollow Church, is correct, and Revelation was written prior to the Patmos event—I don’t know, perhaps in 65 AD, perhaps after the destruction of the temple—I don’t know, I simply don’t know.

Or it could be split: it could have been written earlier, and then  he was exiled to Patmos, and when he returned to Ephesus, he  recalled those things rather. But I don’t know. There’s a group of  folks who favor the latter writing, around 96 AD, and John would  have been a very old fellow by then. We don’t know. You can’t  really, I don’t think, necessarily pin down with any accuracy from  the Bible, front scripture relating to scripture, when Revelation  was actually penned.
This much I know: if Pastor Gallaty is correct, it makes a lot of sense. Because then, interpreting Revelation forward, it makes perfect sense that at the end John would display the Kingdom of God as he does, and that he would insist that none of the meanings of the words in this text need to be changed. Because you do have to change some of the meanings of the words in dispensationalism in order to follow along with a later-day writing and that kind of thing. We’re not going to get into that. That’s not recounting. But John may have been recounting. And my encouragement to you is to recount. Don’t get all melodramatic in recounting, but rather try to be accurate.

Accuracy in recounting will show you Christ has indeed walked in your Christian life.






Recount Accuracy
[22]Recount, for clarification, because it’s one thing to remember any event, it’s another thing to itemize or account for the different aspects of that event. So now you see kind of the accounting background to recount. And it isn’t a bad thing at all —it’s a very good thing—because it’s important to understand what it is that you perceive as having taken place in your life, relative to Christ, in a numeric set of values. This time He did this, this time He did this, this time Jesus did this. That’s how the Gospels break out the interaction between Christ and His disciples.

Therefore, does it not make sense that we should break down our existence with Christ in the same manner? Doesn’t it seem wise—perhaps wise as a serpent and harmless as a dove—that we would learn to recount and consider as accurately as possible the times that Almighty God, Elohim, in the point of the Holy Spirit, has brought us to a point of committing something as an action that has had a result in our lives and in the lives of others?
That’s recounting. You want it to be as accurate as possible. Now, that means that you’re going to include those times when people self-righteously come after you—when people self-righteously say that they know the truth and you’re not enacting the truth, and that you need to act a certain way in order to be acting the truth of the Bible. And the way that they perceive you is that you are erroneous in your behavior. You need to be able to account for that. Why? Because later on, when you take that interpretation of events back to the Scriptures, you’re going to discover something: you weren’t wrong, you weren’t in error—they were.
But those who seek to keep things always constant, always without conflict, always without intervention, always without change, will always seek to maintain the status quo by shaming those who are trying to make a difference and change in the status quo. Run that past your thinking a little bit every once in a while, because trust me when I tell you that tradition—the law—kills. But the Spirit, which is progressive and new, based on what today Paul says, “Forgetting the past, this I do: I press on to the high calling of God in Christ”—I press on, go.
It’s the word that God most frequently uses to tell people to go and make change. You don’t see God saying, “Hold up the status quo,” although many people who want the status quo maintain the status quo because they’re comfortable in the status quo. And who wouldn’t be? Living the life that they’re living in total comfort—who wouldn’t be comfortable in the status quo?
To the point that they think they need to self-righteously point out to you that your behavior doesn’t measure up to what they believe—their interpretation of the status quo, God’s Word according to them is. But according to God, according to Jesus, His Word says: go and teach and make what? Disciples.











Recount Joy
[23]Recount other angles, other ways, other side views to things instead of straight on and head up. What does that mean? It's the nuances of life that can sometimes add joy to your experience and happiness, and sometimes those are difficult to see when you're just looking at things head on. Have you ever had an incident where someone just filled you with joy, you were just almost overwhelmed with joy?
It was just such a relief, such a spectacular moment when they told you, for example, I have a friend who was cured of cancer, and it was just mind boggling that that actually happened now, you say, well, that shouldn't be the case, because we believe in faith, when we pray that Jesus is going to take action on our prayers? Sure, but we've also become very adept at accepting the idea that there are 3 different responses that are possible in prayer. Yes, no and wait. And of course, when it comes to health issues like cancer, we pray for healing, but in reality, we've prayed over so many cancers incidents in so many cancer health related prayers; that after a while, what seeps in is you pray, the prayer, hoping by faith, are going to get healed. And you really do believe that. You really do have that hope.
But over time, over sheer amount you tend to develop a kind of coarness about it that you, you don't want to say that you don't believe that they're going to get healed of cancer, but you feel like you really don't have any right to be expecting any one on one solution. And of course, we don't. We're not demanding? We're not setting precedent.
We're not controlling.
God is God.
And God will heal whom God chooses to heal and God will not heal whom God chooses not to heal. We do not understand that, but we do react emotionally to what takes place when those things happen. So there are those times when someone is healed, there's no way to explain it. There's no way to explain miracles and people don't even like to think about miracles.
Because they don't like to believe that miracles can happen, but miracles do happen, and they happen in your life, they happen in your prayer life, they happen in your everyday life. They happen in ways that you're unaware of the idea of recount is to recount joy, look back at that time when someone was actually healed from a prayer and feel that joy, that takes place. That'll give you something to go on.
That'll give you a boost to your faith package and it should help you in developing a stronger hope because we know that a component faith is hope. So when you pray for someone to be healed, you pray with faith, believing That God is God because you cannot pray to God if you don't believe God is God.

Why wouldn't you ask God to heal someone? And then when God does- thankfulness, it returns in your heart, recount that; recount that joy?











Recount Negatives
[24]Recount those moments. Recount those spectacular moments, those impactful moments that aren't necessarily pleasant.
Let's stop think about the fact that sometimes we don't want to consider that the best thing that can happen for us isn't positive in nature, but negative, or at least seems negative.

Actually, many times what seems negative turns out to be positive, so we count not necessarily pleasantries. But bear in mind, things that may not seem to be so pleasant. We live in a culture in 2025, especially in America that has something in it called the cancel culture, and this is absolutely deadly to faith and people of faith don't realize how deadly this is. This is; here's the theory; If you don't like something cancel it out eradicate it, take it out. Why(?) because it's not pleasant, it's not good, it's not positive. Well, here's a hint from the Bible. Not everything is.
God is love. Love, isn't always fun. Love can sometimes be very, very hard when you've got to stand there and hold the hand of someone that you really care about who's passing over. You don't take that easily, you know, they're going to heaven, but that doesn't mean that it's easy to hold their hand while they go there.
Recount, those times. Recount, with empathy recount. Understanding and recounting will bring wisdom. The Bible talks about the deliverance of wisdom as coming from those times when we are disciplined. Hebrew says that those whom God loves He disciplines, because if a parent loves the child but doesn't discipline that child that child becomes a spoiled child and we all know this.
But in a cancel culture, that's become something that folks don't want to admit is really the way that life ought to be lived. And as a result, it is deadly to faith, and when it comes to recounting, if all that you are capable of recounting is success on top of success and joy, on top of joy and positive on top of positive and constantly demanding that miracles in spectacular things are the only things that comprise your faith, my friend, Your faith is not solid.
It is lopsided. It is all leaned over to the positive. If everyone on the ship got on the right side of the ship, it would list, and that's what happened. That's what's happening in Christianity. And especially with discipling others, is that we are listing to a side, that doesn't allow for whole people, whole people have things about them that aren't pleasant? Things about them that aren't nice things. Things that aren't wonderful. I'm here to tell you that we live in a world as sinners, where sin makes us ugly and ugly is sometimes part of what you need to recount, because that's what your faith stands against and when you stand against something, let me tell you that it is every bit as powerful; if not more powerful; than standing for something.

What did Jesus preach more of? Standing against evil? Or standing for sincerity and truth?










Recount Peaks
[25]Recount mountain tops. Recount standing at the top of the mountain and seeing other peaks, Dr. Schuller in his book, the Peek to Peak Theory, I think it's called the Peek to Peak Theory?
Peek to Peak Success something like that; Robert Schuller was such a genius; but his peek to peak, that is p-e-e-k, to, p-e-a-k.
Well, it's very simple. What he suggests standing at the base of the mountain, you can see the top of the mountain, and that's the peak. That's all you can see. You see that mountain now when you get up to that peak, you can look out and you see many, many other peaks. Now, that journey is how Robert Schuler described the journey of life. That is p e e k, to, p e a k.
In other words, the way of looking at life, it's okay. We arrive at peaks. Now, we had a peek at the peak before we climbed up that mountain to get to the peak. Recounting peaks means that you're not looking at the journeys involved in the peaks, you're just looking at the peaks.
Okay, let's concretize that in an example that makes sense. Take high school graduation, college graduation, earning professional awards, all of those are peaks. Now, in a life that does not have peaks, there is a tremendous difficulty, and when you're working with disciples, disciples have peaks, you have moments when things are spectacular, and those moments need to be noted, I would say, moments when you feel that tremendous closeness with Christ. Hard to be noted. Noted in your heart noted in your mind and brought up for recount those peaks. I can name those peaks in my Christian climb. The day I was born again in Pirmasens, Germany, in my in my room, in 1976. I can recount that and know that and it's important. Because you need to lock that down, because trust me, Satan, will come after you at your point of salvation. So when you know that day that you've made that decision as specific as you can possibly be about it, it makes it much more difficult for Satan, to put doubt in your head about it because he will try that. You can just trust me on that. Having been a Christian for 50 years, I can tell you that that was a peak.

What was another peak, was joining a church, another peak was first revival, another peak was of course, baptism is a peak. And we have peaks in our Christian walk when we've been closer to Christ.
If you remember those times of closeness, and you view them as peaks, when you recount those peaks, feel what that does for your faith?
I don't believe in just a feeling faith, but I also don't believe; I also don't believe(!) in an unfeeling faith. Let me re-emphasize that I don't just believe in a faith-based on feeling, but I also do not believe in a faith that does not have feelings. I know the feeling is very much deeply, a part of me, Jesus didn't talk in the revelation of Christ about the fact that those who were, who were apathetic toward him who were just neither hot nor cold, but Lukewarm; that he spit them out of his mouth, I call them the wet ones. He doesn't kill 'em, but they're wet, and it's nasty.
And the fact of the matter is in Christianity, in looking, and recounting peaks in Christianity, you want to look at those moments when you were closest to Christ, why(?) cause you're gonna have moments when you're not. And when you have those moments, when you're not, you need to remember those moments when you were. And I'm sure that you can see this, but if you'll make this a part of recounting, I promise you it will be helpful to you.


Chapter Three
Recertify Language
[26]Ad aspera ad Astra. It is a rough road that leads to the stars. There are times in following God, when seemingly simple concepts like Genesis, 3;8 God walking in the cool of the day, 'rua yom'. They get past us, we let them go by, because we don't want to grasp is a significance of them simply because we do not know the language.
So when it comes to a process of recertify, perhaps one of the first things that we really ought to dig into is certifying itself. How genuine? In faith, if you are very genuine, in friendship with someone who does not speak your language?
But you're genuine, in your friendship, you like being in their presence, they like being in your presence, you share with them, they share with you. It is an exchange. You are friends, you smile together in a way that only you can, but your language separates you, your kindness and your congeniality and your love, unite you and especially in Christianity.
But you don't know how to speak Korean, they don't know how to speak English, you can make the symbol of the cross and touch your heart, both of you get what the messages, but how much more spectacular is it, once you learn only a little smattering of their language Korean?
Now, you can communicate that you love them. As a sister or a brother in Christ, and you can learn to say that relatively quickly how would you feel, put yourself for just a moment on a different kind of plane and think about this?
You have a language that you primarily use, God knows all languages because God is all-knowing obviously, but there is a language which He prefers it is the language that you easily simply and congenially speak. And you have Mankind that you've created Adam A man; that you've created and you and he speak Hebrew, I bet you if I were a betting man, which I'm not because; obviously, the bibles says thou-shalt-not bet, but if I were a betting man, I'd say the language that God and Adam exchanged prior to the fall was Hebrew? Because of the way that he uses it as a language, symbolic, numerical valued a different kind of strange, kind of language. How would you like it? If the very people that you had given this gift, to said, no, too difficult, we don't want to be bothered to try to learn it? you wouldn't like that at all.
How pleased would you be if they picked up even a simple portion of it, "Shema, ysrael, Adonia echeshedron"? Even a simple part of it, badly mispronounced cause my Hebrew diction is terrible, but you get the point, and that's not a guilt trip, this is saying, can you actually please God?
Is it possible to please God, well, certainly, it is impossible, to please God if you don't come to him in (what?) faith, but how much of a better illustration of having some faith in the king of the universe, the creator of the universe, is it, if you bother to only learn some of his language?
Imagine how proud he'd be, if you ever got to the point where you could really speak that language and then begin to really communicate with him by doing what? Be still and know, He is God.






Recertify Martyr
[27]Recertify has contained within the term an idea. We've been talking about bringing people back to Jesus, working with disciples to keep them engaged with Jesus.
It's a different process, than what we would normally call witnessing. It's a different process than martyring. Martyring is when the authorities or someone in authority isn't in agreement with you about your Christianity, it can take many different forms.For example, some folks are forced to work on Sundays, even though Sunday is a day when they would want to go to church and worship. So that's a form of martyrdom now it's not a very a deep form, but nevertheless, it is true that is a form of martyrios or being a witness.
Because what you intend to do is go worship, and what they're saying is, no, you can't, that's authority coming in over the top of the proper conduct of a person who wants to worship God. So that is martyrdom, that's not martyrdom in the sense of the many, many people in the last year, 2024; who were killed because they were given the option of denouncing their faith in Christ or having their head cut off. Or other very, ugly forms of martyrdom that still exists in the world today in the fight of Christianity against any religions that are not true.
And the only true religion is the one where Jesus said, I am the way the truth and the life no man comes to the father except by me. Now many people see Jesus saying that with different frames of physical reference. I personally don't think he was smiling when he said that. Because it seems to me God, the father would want you to have paths to him, instead of just one single path, through Christ's only sacrifice? That's a human and weak and frail type of thought.
God is not human. God, is God. His thoughts are not our thoughts. That's what the Prophet Isaiah makes clear to the nation Jerusalem. So when we talk about recertify and we think about disciples, and we think about bringing them back to Jesus; what is it about being with Jesus that actually is so appealing? 
And in my mind, one of the first aspects of being with Jesus that is so appealing is that I can receive forgiveness and intercession between God, the Father; and I. Because God, His thoughts are not my thoughts; and my thoughts are sinful ones. Therefore reconciling Sinless God to my thoughts as a sinful man is quite a process for quite a King, my King and our Commander Jesus. That's where we recertify to our disciples, Who Jesus is?


















Recertify Recertifying!
[28]Recertify by recertifying, is part of the process of certify done over again. Certify over again. Bring a disciple back to Jesus if they've drifted, even if they haven't drifted in the process of bringing them back to Jesus, it should be an encouragement, and it can be an encouragement. And as you develop the idea of working with recertify, you may find yourself having the ability to work with a person and be encouraging (another) one, and at the same time as recertifying your presence as one who follows Christ, the Greek term is gnorizo ( gno-rid'-zo) and gnorizo has an interesting uh, context to it.

It's used in a lot of scripture, for example, gnorizo, is used many times like in John 17:26. It's used to say it's a declaration in John 17:26 says, "and I have declared onto them by name, and I and will declare it." it can be as a declarative, Ephesians 6:21 says that you may know how Paul has been conducting himself with Tychicus a brother. It can be a declarative, so certifying can be a declaration. It can be a way that you're going about things. Recertifying is doing the process over and over again. It was somewhat shocking to me that this would be the way that Paul would go about saying that the people that he wanted to be involved within his ministry; when he was there in terms of Galatia terms of the Galatians, would be that he would want them to be working with a process that would have this connotation to it. 
He says in Galatians 1:12 that "I neither received it of man nor was I taught it, but by the revelation of Christ" and he's talking about what he has said in verse 11, "but I certify you brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me, is not after man."  So Paul is making a point that as a person who is working with disciples you want to also make. This joy that you're talking to them about, this gospel that you're sharing with them about; this thing that the two of you are experiencing that you want to share with others also.
So this is born again, people, this is a believers; practicing disciples; going and teaching the people; is what Jesus really foresaw in that command in Matthew 28. So certify, gnorizo, go and make and declare the presence of Christ.






















Recertify Miracle
[29]Miracle, it's such a great word, and it's such a great event. It's such a great happening in your life. Miracle, but how do you recognize a miracle? I'm gonna suggest to you that often times when a miracle is happening, it really doesn't look like a miracle.
It looks like pain or it looks like suffering or it looks like something disastrous. There's something in the scripture, which says that something that happened didn't look like it was intended for good, but that God intended it for good. Now that's real hard for us, because we we proof text Romans, 8:28, when we shouldn't. We shouldn't proof text it.
We should just take it as it is, but actually put it in context, look at everything, Paul had been through and yet, this man who had been nearly beaten to death. Moreover, on occasion, I think I it happened 3 times. Shipwrecked, which we think "ah shipwrecked," understand that means nearly drowning, nearly dying bitten by a Viper anyone else would. And we don't even see or hear the pain in that incident, because it's not relayed to us(?) by the person who was bearing that pain. 
You don't talk about a miracle? Miracles happen, miracles really do happen. Can we demand miracles? No, absolutely not. Can we hope for miracles absolutely.  Can we become spoiled children when it comes to miracles? You better believe we can. Shouldn't we no, aren't we to pray for miracles? I would believe so, but how should we pray for miracles? Humbly, humbly, I don't believe you should go blasting into the courts of the royal King Almighty creator of the universe, God; and stand there like some upset baby whining out of its crib, because it's hungry and it's not being taken care of like it needs to be! Yet, that's the presence of what our life might amount to as sinners. But that's not what God the creator of the universe needs to be exposed to.
He created us, he made us. We are, in fact, miracles from God. Most people don't like to proclaim that. Most people aren't comfortable with that proclamation. What is a miracle? We see it in hindsight? So when we talk about recertifying faith, your followership, your disciples, we're talking about sharing with people what has really happened in your life. And I know very few Christians who have actually been converted; born from above; born again, who haven't gone then into baptism. Which is important because it's a public declaration of that state of being born from above. Why else would Jesus go to John the Baptist in the Jordan? To be baptized? He is sinless, he wasn't being baptized to have his sin washed away and what did happen? In the Jordan, that day God affirmed the Messiah. And that's denied, very heavily and history has tried to stamp that out. Just like history, wants to stamp out your new birth and just like history, wants to stamp that new birth out, you by faith and hope must recertify that you are born again and that can only happen through your life.
Your words are great. But you're life, is what counts. Live it for your disciples. Find your four and make sure that they can find their four, who then can find, their four. Don't let the practice of assembling yourselves together, cease happening by you, because you are unwilling to be certified and to recertify your faith! Be strong, be of good courage and serve your God.









Recertify Serving
[30]Sit down, if you're standing up, sit down, if you're sitting down, stay there, but get ready, because what I'm about to share with you is not the traditional thing that you hear shared. And so I want a kind of preferences by suggesting to you that you understand yes, I've walked with Christ for 50 years. Been called into the ministry for 47 of those, and probably was called before then. Been to seminary, been trained, have a doctorate in theology.
I'm fairly well educated, a scholastically educated individual academically, trained into a better professor; did a little bit of academic training of others. Bucked up against that system, and when you buck up against the educational system, what happens, you get eliminated, and I got eliminated, I had no idea what the battle that I was in. Went to be a pastor at one time. Got eliminated; had no idea the battle I was in.
Here's the thing that I'm going to suggest here, listen to this story and see how it goes with you; with your head about what I'm saying, because it will take some discernment. But here's the truth as I see it. This is from my point of view, and so I want you to understand this.
Not everybody's gonna love you as a Christian in the body of Christ. Not everybody's gonna love you, and that's hard to understand because you would think that as Christians brothers and sisters, we would love one another.
That's what Jesus commands us to do. But in commanding that Jesus was looking at men who would disagree with each other, they walked with Jesus, had contact with him every day, were taught the things that we can only guess at what they were taught because they were with him for 3 and a 1/2 years. And John says, if we tried to record every bit of that verbatim, the world couldn't hold the books.
Okay, granted. But what that also says is this; they still got into disagreements with each other, and when you really study the history of the faith, you'll learn that takes place. Well, I was fired up, I had been to seminary had started seminary, and I was excited, I was taking seminary training with the professor who wrote the book on preaching. James c. Taylor Professor emeritus of preaching for New Orleans, theological seminary, why I was excited man, I tell you, and it was at the extension at a Broadmoor Baptist church, in Shreveport, Louisiana. I come from poor and we didn't have much money. And I was trying to support a family and go to seminary. And a dear friend, provided money for me to go to seminary.
Well, left over after everything else that we had been through, was a $100. So my wife said, here's a $100 so that you can take this with you down there when you go to your first class man, I was excited and she bought me a new shirt of Red and white striped shirt with a matching red tie that had white in it, I had a new black suit. I had a preachers of black suit.
It was classy, I felt so cool, goin my 1st day to seminary, and so when I got down to Broadmoor, I was a little bit early, and I had time to go out and get a Coke. Now picture this; Broadmoor is on Youree drive one of the main streets in Shreveport Louisiana, so I'm walking down the street to go get a Coke because I've got time before class starts. People are driving by, they're waving at me and they're smiling. A station wagon with kids in it, waving out the back windows, smiling as they go by and went to the store and I got the Coke.
And I offered up to the cashier that I only had a 100; "I was so sorry but man," I felt; you know what I mean? I felt proud is just cool. I get back to class and class is starting.
He's taking roll and Dr. Taylor comes over to me and he says, "1st day in seminary?" "Yes, professor," he said "Listen, you might want to close the barn door because the cows are getting out." Didn't catch it, for a minute, what's he talking about? And I look down, and my red and white shirt was hanging out my wide open fly.
That's what people had been laughing out and waving out and enjoying. Sometimes We need to overcome our own personal prejudices and think about what's the most ridiculous thing that's ever happened you, What's the worst thing that could happen. I guarantee you? It's not serving Jesus Christ.
Red
[31]Stay seated, if you got up and walked round in between these pages, go back and sit down. Because while my first entry about recertifying and serving had to do with conflict in general; but a funny sense; about what's the worst thing that could happen to you. Now, I'm going to share something with you that is, I consider; it is vastly stranger.
But a great learning lesson, there was an elder in our church who was just a magnificent dude. I mean, he's, he's so cool that it's hard to explain how deep his faith was. I'm gonna call him Red. Now here's the thing, I went on a mission trip. I was brand new I was going to seminary. I basically had only been a Christian for maybe 3 years, we went to a mission trip out in New Mexico. It
was a mountain top of mountain top experiences and someday, I'll share with you about the prison visitation and going out and witnessing on the streets of New Mexico I think Albuquerque out there. It was astonishing.
But we get back to Central, and we're having a men's meeting a men's dinner, and I sit down at the men's dinner to eat my meal. And some folks asked me how was it out in Mexico and away I went man. I was telling them about witnessing the people in how it was, and how I couldn't believe that more men hadn't gotten involved in things like that, and what was happening with men where they were, they becoming less than you know, less than spirit filled and less than involved in less than caring were they becoming apathetic, would Jesus spit them out of his mouth?
Red was sitting across from me, and looked at me and he said, "Young man, I think you need to calm down," I said, "calm down, get serious man, I think you need to get fired up." And a way we went. Now, he didn't take all of my statements about being fired up and saying I'm so glad that you said that to me, because iron sharpens iron. No, he kept telling me that I needed to quiet down, and be still to realize who I was, we got into it.
And after that men's meeting and I'm telling you, this is real; for a month when we passed each other in the halls, I'd walk on one side, he'd walk on the other and we didn't speak to each other. There was, shall we say little love between us; that's terrible. But that's what went down. This is real.
So we had a men's meeting scheduled for the brotherhood in Minden Louisiana. I'll never forget it. Because the professor that was my professor of preaching, his co-author was the man who was delivering the message that night. Harold Bryson and so I told my boss in Shreveport, that I needed to be sure that I would be able to get to this meeting. He said that was no problem so long as I had my work covered, I could go. I left Shreveport at exactly 4 o'clock and I arrived at Central Baptist, at exactly 5 o'clock. We had a big old bus, the golden goose was sitting out there. And check this out, it was packed with men all of them except for one seat, and you know; next to who? Red.
Well, I went over and begrudgingly sat down next to him, and I'm sure he was thrilled that I was there, and we silently rode to Minden.
That night, Harold Bryson preached on the importance of men of faith being able to forgive one another; and to strengthen the brotherhood, and to understand that as men of Christ, we needed to love one another. Be forgiving of one another and to forgive each other, even if the other person didn't feel like they needed forgiveness. We needed to forgive each other because there's nothing more important than brotherhood and unity in the body of Christ. And it doesn't have anything to do with brotherhood, were all members of the body of Christ, and I mean, Harold Bryson, let loose on forgiveness to the point where my feet were so bloody that I couldn't even hardly walk you know. We go back to the bus and again now I'm looking sitting next to Red and he looks over at me and starts to say "I will hope that you can forg..." before you got forgive out his mouth. I said "Red please forgive me." And we re-established our relationship with one another, and it was as solid relationship as you could ever want.
One month later, Red died.

[32]Now, folks don't normally think that our lives as Christians, it could contain miracles within them. We just, we don't objectively, or subjectively consider; that it's not part of our normal way of thinking. 
We think and go through life as; this, I have to do today. These are the things I have to do. This is what's going to go on. We almost never begin our day by asking God, what would you have me do today? That's just not our lifestyle, certainly not in America, in 2025. Our lifestyle is, get it, get it done, and if you're a young man, it's get it, get success, get more and really, is there anything wrong with that?
Because, you know, have we got our priorities upside down? I don't know, have we got our priorities inverted? I don't know, I wrote a book called inverted culture and how to happily survive in it. My friend was a best selling author Dr. Stephen Covey, who wrote the 7 habits of an effective leader? I just, you know, I thought the book would really take off and sell.
It has not had many people read it, and those who did read it said, well, it was pretty good. In fact, my daughter said "It took me about 45 minutes to read it dad, and it sounded like you talking," and I said, "Well, cool, that's the effect I was after," but I talk about Dr. Deming, who massively developed the idea of quality in performance; and I talk about Dr. Covey and his 7 habits, and then we bring into the thing Dr. Shuler, Robert Shuler and his theory "Peek to Peak.
A theory on success or outlook about living successfully, which is Peek, take a look, peek, to peak. Success, it's amazing, okay, amazing, but here's the thing, all of that energy in and all of that exuberance, and all of that spontaneity, one of the the principal elements of walking with Christ can fly right by us. Especially if you're a young person, male or female in pursuit of success in America. You may find yourself being driven by house notes that are too large; car notes that are too large; expenses and bills that eat up and consume your time. So no, we don't begin our day by asking God "What would you have me do today?" Because our lives are not arranged that way?
Question is; is that an incorrect approach to living? I'm going to say that, if you look at the life of Paul, the answer is no. Paul was a tent maker. In his writings, he talks about being a tent maker. In his many things that he says about being an Apostle to the churches, one of the things that he says is; I supported my own ministry through my own works.
So evidently; there is something about being successful, operating in success, and being a Christian that, as we recertify, we certify as being born again, it's binding kind of a documented process of being a Christian that we have a testimony that certifies it, we're Christian that we recertify, that our conduct is along the lines of those things which Christ himself has commanded us to do; love one another. Understand the beatitudes, understand Him, love Him, but as we love Him love each other. "This command I give you a new command that you love one another." That's not easy and so recertifying, has a lot to do with loving your disciples in bringing them back to Jesus.









Chapter Four Practice- Always!
RRR Three
[33]What's the most beautiful place that you've ever seen? The place that just takes your breath away. I can think of so many really beautiful places in nature that I've seen, and some places architecturally, made by man that I've seen like the Cathedral at Rheims, France; take your breath away. The Grand Canyon takes your breath away, really beautiful, magnificent things that are so big and so massive and so awesome and so pretty when you remember them. They bring back that sense of breathlessness, an anticipation in your life. That's a massively important aspect of our emotional component of happiness and joy, isn't it?
When we talk about recounting, that's a moment where you think about that miraculous reconnection, that just took place, you've thought about something so totally beautiful and so magnificent that it took your breath away, and for a moment, your mind goes back to that point and you recount that and is that not a miracle? It's a singular miraculous event of that day, and I realized that's a little bit self-aggrandizing. But not actually, if you're giving credit to the Holy Spirit for that movement inside of your heart, that's not self-aggrandizement, that is spirituality.
So when we think about remembering and recounting, then we're looking at recertifying. When you then go into the place where you take that and you make that a part of your life's view. Things that you're going to speak of that day to people that, you know, intimately enough to say and speak of that; way that day.
Your friends, your loved ones, your family at first they're gonna say that you may have lost your way a little bit, and you're starting to get a bit doty. Even if you're only 40 years old, they're going to think, "wow, you know, age is setting in." For really young people, however, this can be something functionally strong enough that they can grab onto it.
This is where recertifying becomes not just a testimony, but a rope, if you will, I love that book about who's going to hold the rope because the person who holds the rope on a ship that's about to drift away from the dock; has a very important position if people are still waiting to board that ship? And aren't we all still waiting to board the ship for Jesus who's coming back again soon? So let's not lose our
faith in Christ returning soon, instead, let's recertify, and let those rememberings and recountings of those significant, magnificent beautiful moments in our lives not become boring. But let us learn to share them with such enthusiasm and joy that they're actually interesting to others.














RRR Elohim
[34]You may hear some background noise in this recording, because I'm recording on our porch outside. Hearing all the great sounds of nature birds chirping, the wind blowing; whispering through the trees. Surrounded by all this beauty surrounded by these miracles. I'm often reminded, Ah, remember, I'm often reminded of the miraculous powers that we're in the midst of that, we do not realize. So remembering is a way of fronting or bringing to the forefront of your consciousness; it's the miraculous, experience that we are in the assemblage of.
So much matter in creation, in a constant creative force. And what this realization can help us with is a recount of a day. You know, this moment on this porch saying, these things with you that is, in effect, a miracle and it is no small thing to recognize what is actually taking place in terms of creation. We call God Elohim, creator God, almighty. God. We say that almost as a by word or a simple statement that is made so often nowadays that we don't stop to realize we we don't recount the adequacy of that term Elohim.
Creator it's not a process of beginning, and end; it is instead a process. And in the midst of that, we recertify and bring to the meaning and bearing in our life, by understanding and appreciating the license of it, that we have a faith, which sees with eyes, those miracles and hears with ears, those miracles.
And that process of recertifying is a daily, you know, there's a term we used to use renewal. And I think we wore out renewal, because people were realizing, you know, I need renewal, just about every minute, if it comes to actual repentance sinner that I am. And yet the truth of the matter is recertifying, is every bit as important, because I am almost convinced, then in remembering recounting and recertifying, you're stating with your life, something that you want people to be able to see and to be able to understand.
So that they can help others with the same process, thereby honoring the command Jesus gave us to go and make disciples teaching them and what are we teaching them? We're teaching them Jesus? We're bringing them to Jesus, we're bringing them to the word to the Bible, to the Logos, the word that became flesh and dwelt among men. We're constantly bringing them back to Jesus, why? Because as sinners, our tendency is to go away, not to come back and so as a person who makes disciples, your tendency is to want to bring them back to Jesus, bring them back to Jesus. So remember recount and recertify to do that.

















RRR Be Still
[35]Remember that there are times when what we want to be is still and remember that being still, it's something that actually needs to be practiced certainly in our age, certainly in the United States of America in 2025. Being still is very far from the norm, it would seem there's an awful lot of noise in our culture.
For example, almost everything is portrayed with music in midst. You almost never go into any situation without some music in the background somehow being involved in life. I think we got trained to experience that through the movies of the 50 60s and 70s and the 9 into the 80s, 90s in 2000 etc. All of those stories had music in the background. Called background music.
So when we recount those times that we're remembering situations where we were trying to be still, it might be helpful to recount the fact that there are very few moments, where we're not somehow trying to interject music into a life that may not have music. Because there are times when you don't want the presence of any sound; because that is going to get between and the still small voice that whispers, and it's important sometimes, to recount those moments when you've actually been still, and you've actually heard God.
Now people get creeped out about that. And I don't think that they should. Look if it doesn't bother you that God is God, it shouldn't bother you that God speaks, and it shouldn't seem odd that God Who created you would on occasion, enjoy having you actually here His voice, and so you reccertify, the fact that you are a follower of Jesus Christ the son of the living God, the Messiah.
The one who sacrificed his life on the cross for you, and bled that your sins might be forgiven, so that in that forgiveness, you can glory in the fact that you don't have to be strong in overcoming sin, you just have to turn the sin over to Him and when you do that, He does away with the sin. By a process that we can't experience, because we are not strong enough to go to the cross. And yet, His instruction to Earth is specifically take up your cross
and follow Me. And that's the message that we want to try to recertify by, with all of our disciples. Is follow him daily, take up the cross daily.





















RRR Forgiven
[36]In one of the scriptures, Paul says, I must be out of my mind to talk to you people this way. And he's talking about his experiences with serving Jesus and the various things that have happened to him; how many times he's been whipped, how many times he's been shipwrecked, and he says that it sounds like boasting at some point and that he would never want to be guilty of boasting. Except in what?
Except in the strength of Jesus, because Paul had realized that when he is weak, Jesus is strong, and there is an ancillary statement to that that we want to remember, we're talking about, remembering it, and what we want to remember is: We're weak. We are weak. And that's beyond honesty and beyond confessional, it's beyond the fact that we're sinners, who find it nearly impossible to escape the lies of satan, he's clever, so we do sin.
But we can what confess and Jesus does what? Forgives and so when we come to recounting the times that Jesus has forgiven us. Forgiven us of sins that we are guilty of. This is not something that there is any doubt about. Well, I don't know if that was a sin or not, no, there's no prevarication here, this is absolute! Boom that was a sin.
That was a lie I stole, I cheated, I lied; I was lusting; whatever; all the various multitude of sins that we weak humans are capable of when we refuse to call upon the Holy Spirit to get in the midst of it. Before we commit it, when we don't listen to him; because he says, you don't have to do this, when we commit the sin, where Christ forgives us when we confess to him, the sin and ask him to forgive us, he forgives us how many times? Innumerable times, innumerable times.
So we recertify the fact that Christ forgives us. Now, listen, that's an aggravation to people who don't understand forgiveness, that's an aggravating point about
Christianity, to people who don't understand forgiveness. And here's what they'll say, sometimes they'll say, man, I don't want to be around those people because they're hypocrites.
And one person told me this, to me one time; he said, I don't want to go down to that church man, because there's a bunch of hypocrites down there, and I said, really, do you know them? I mean, can you tell me who they are, because I'd love to chat with them? He didn't like that very much, but the simple fact of the matter is, he was saying what people commonly say they don't behave like they claim that they're supposed to behave? 
Well, guess what nobody does, and the person saying that they certainly don't, but it's not our place to point that out to them, it's our place to understand that we're forgiven and recertify the facts. That we are going to follow Jesus, and we're going to share with our disciples, our 4 personal people, that we're going to be sure they're coming back to Jesus.













RRR Finding
[37]Ever get dried lips? I get dry lips all the time. They get cracked even sometimes. And so I use a product called ChapStick@ there's other products Vaseline@, etc.
I'm just a ChapStick guy, I like it. So I went and bought two, because with me; I'm going to always leave one somewhere, and do not remember -what? Remember(?)Yeah, not remember where I put it, but I'll remember where the other one is. And I'll go get it.
So with 2 of them, you'd think that I would always have somewhere around where I needed a ChapStick. In a nutshell. I managed to wear one of them out, so I was down to just 1 and keeping knowing where that was at;  and lo and behold, somehow it got misplaced. Or got left in a pocket of a Jean somewhere, and I didn't remember where?
So when it comes to recounting things that seem oddly miraculous like odd reminders, this morning, I'm doing wash, and I look at the bottom of the wash basket after I get the clothes out of it, to put them in the washing machine and lo and behold what is in the bottom; of the wash basket? My chopstick. When it comes to recounting sometimes it's the small things.
It's like the God of the universe, laughing and smiling and saying, "Oh my goodness, despite your best efforts, Dana. Here I'm gonna help you out son, here's your ChapStick back!" Re- count; recount the things that are major; recount, the things that are minor.
Recount The Times when he saved my son's life by having a doctor who realized that he was bleeding to death inside and we had to get it taken care of right now. And in that same time frame my grandmother, who raised me passed. And we had to go to her funeral, we wanted to go to her funeral; and yet, here was my son having to have this surgery so we were down there for the surgery. Mom and dad came in and took our place for us and we took off for Colorado.
Recertifying faith since the things don't always work out the way that we think that they're going to. Recertifying by faith, that things don't always work out the way that we think that they're going too You can remember, and you can recount, and you will recertify because if you remember, and you recount recertifying your faith in Jesus Christ, well, naturally happen next.
It's not forced thing. It's not a screaming, forced hand raised Hallelujah. it is a from the heart and the gut; Jesus we love you, thank you.



















RRR Sure Fire
[38]Sure fire you ever hear something called a sure fire cure for  something, was it? How often are sure fire cures really cures?  Remember Aha, yes, that's right, remember; that those things that  are often called surefire turn out to be fires that had water poured  on them.
And one of the things that if we have described as working at, in remembering is remembering with a purpose, remembering with some subtlety and some nuance to it, because we control the memory process, we control what we remember and how we remember it, we control the things that we choose to make significant. And sure fire cures I'm pretty much sure  are guaranteed not to work, aren't they?
So as you're recounting your walk with Jesus, and you're recounting the things that you're remembering recount to things, count them again The Times that so-called surefire. Things it didn't work out. And then take a look at the many things that he accomplished in the midst of that. Because one of the most powerful things about if the prophetic ministry of Christ in your life today; is how he can make the truth that he is come to bear relevance in your life.
Now is that always a good thing is that always a fun thing. Well, it's almost always a good thing. It's almost never a fun thing. Because usually it involves something called thin and usually it involves it's something called confession, and usually involves something called repentance, and none of those uh, turn out to be as much fun as we'd like them to be. So we end up in a process of recertifying our walk with Christ.
Walking out here as I am in the yard, where we can hear the birds chirping and the power of God and creation all around us, and we recertified that it is Christ. It is as John said, nothing was made, that was made if it wasn't made in Him where everything is founded in Christ without Christ, there is nothing. 
And so we recertify our faith, and that's what you want to do with your disciples is you want to be sure to take them to Jesus. Because actually do any of us have disciples? No; if anybody is learning, why are they learning, they're learning, because Christ provided the learning to take place and ultimately, that's the truth that you want to pass on to those who choose to listen and to have eyes to see and ears to hear.




















RRR Service
[39]Are there difficulties in following Jesus? There are; there are many difficulties in following Jesus, not to mention some that are more and some that are less distracting and less difficult, but following Christ is never easy.
First of all, the word became flesh and dwelt among us. We take that to mean in Jesus as the incarnate. But there's a tertiary meaning to that, which is you, you're a physical being so when you read the Bible, you're reading the word Jesus is the Logos; the word; and it becomes physical when it imparts its power of truth to you, then Holy Spirit interacts with you. 
So remember that one of the things that you're a part of is following Christ. You're following him through the word of God through the Bible, through the holy spirits guidance.
So it's not so easy to get off track, but we do get off track, and so one of the things we want to recount, one of the things we want to recount in awareness; is the times when we've gotten off track. That he has gently brought us back. Ah, I love pastor Giglio's sermon about; "Don't give the enemy a seat at the table," and he talks about when a sheep gets its fur wet and fast waters that the shepherd has to take that that crook of the neck of the shepherd's staff and pull that sheep out till he can get him out of the fast water cause, that fur gets heavy in that poor sheep will drown.
We get into those circumstances. We need that shepherd, we need to recount those times when that has happened, why? Because that reinforces in your faith, the actuality of the reality that yes, Jesus does come and get us and yes, we are not worthy and yes, we are bad at confession and poor in repentance, but we are what we are.
And we recertify that we try to do the best that we can do in our faith. Walking with Jesus is an act of faith, trying to get others to get back to Jesus is an act of faith, if someone is already a Christian, you don't want to take them through the salvation process over and over and over again, no, that first basic baby step is over.
So now we're talking about living which is different, think about when you were a child, your parents or your mom or your dad brought you what you needed, but as you grow into an adult, you begin to see that there are others that you can also take care of? And then realized that you're recertifying the fact that you're capable of caring for people and that you are a caring person. What would Jesus say about a person who loves others so much that they serve them?

















RRR Learners
[40]Remember the importance of your presence and the things that you talk about 'n discuss with your disciples; with your learners. You wanna remember that you're pointing them back to Jesus?
As you get involved in their lives, your task is to be with your Savior and to listen to the Holy Spirit. And to guide your learners to Jesus, that's making disciples, your job is not to do anything else. Because if you get into doing anything else, that's going to be on your own time; and do you have any of your own time? Remember who's life it actually is; remember who's heartbeat it actually is; who's food it is; who air who's everything it is who's life it is we owe our lives to Christ. We are the creation of God, the father. And we do not own anything. We are just sojourners traveling through this existence, and our purpose remember is to do what make disciples off Matthews end chapter of chapter 28. 
Recount, The Times that you have seriously thought about what you're doing, recount them, you may not find many or you may find a lot of contemplative times times when you thought, you know, I don't get this, I don't get what's going on. I don't understand it, but I'm going to keep doing it by faith. By what by faith, see faith has an element in it that is identifiable. It is when you act not on what you would love to benefit from, but on what others will benefit from, because that's Agapao love, and that's the guidance of the Holy Spirit. Well, how do I know it's the Holy Spirit guided me? because the Holy Spirit will never Take you away from God or give you things that are contrary to Jesus Christ, our Lord and saviour and the New Testament scriptures in the Gospels, they're identifiable.
So we certify the fact that, yes, the New Testament presentation of Jesus is a record that is meant for a purpose, and that purpose is you, and what is that purpose to make disciples? And how many do we suggest that you start off with? Well, it seems that the pattern is for Peter Andrew James, John, they were brothers, they were brothers, Jesus, chose 2 sets brothers.
Can you think anybody harder to get along with than a brother? So it's almost like Jesus is saying, yeah, I hear you that it's tough finding for friends or 4 people that you love enough, that you wanna Get with them because they're turned on to Jesus, but you want to bring him to the scriptures, you want to bring him to deeper study, you want to bring your deeper revelations, you want to bring them into the existence that is more deeply joyful as a walk with the savior then the one that they might presently be involved in. 
You might be surprised they might be way deeper than you might believe that they are, on the other hand you might also be surprised they might be looking for a deeper walk, and they've just been waiting for somebody with courage enough to approach them and say I'm interested in you and I care about you. And in
Jesus name, I love you That's a tough that's a tough pill, but do it, you're gonna find it, has tremendous joy and tremendous blessing within it.












RRR Courage
[41]Remember the courage to overcome. Overcoming is part of faith. When people read the statement in Hebrews, that faith is the evidence of things hoped for, they don't realize that that's a description of courage. 
Because anytime that you determine that something actually needs to take place, because it's self-evident. We hold these truths to be self-evident. One of the things about self-evidentiary, uh, matters is that it takes courage to jump into them. Let me make that make sense. When you are faced with things that you recognize are evil in their nature and should be corrected, because your faith eyes see them, it takes courage, remember that.

Courage to act upon what you realize what you see and what you hear. So what you're doing is you're recounting the times that your eyes were opened. And your ears were opened and you saw and heard with faith. Don't expect that during those times people are going to applaud your actions.
In fact, if you undertake a project that you believe is based on faith and everything just goes smoothly. I'm not so sure that that's the Holy Spirit instructing you to reach. More of my experience is when the Holy Spirit instructs, you to reach which is faith, you're going to encounter opposition, because Satan is going to try to trip it up somehow. So whenever in my undertakings of faith, I've watched projects go along. If they encounter a lot of heat, if they encounter a lot of difficulty I smile because that's meaning that it attracted the attention of the evil one.
Now, you really shouldn't smile about that cause evil one really isn't fun. There isn't anything fun about Lucifer. There isn't anything fun about the lies of Satan, so we recertify as we remember courage and we remember faith, and we recount the times of faith has acted in our behalf. We recertify by the presence of faith, not just to ourselves, but to those whom we have, who are learners, those 4 people that we're close to, and that we are intimate with and that we are totally realistic with; and that we are as truthful with as we can possibly be.
That we are confessing with and repenting, with and working with Because those disciples need your precious faith, and they need to know that you're real.  Paul said when it comes to sinners, I've got you all beat, because I am the greatest of all sinners, and this was a man who was nearly beaten to death for his faith. Shipwrecked for his faith, bitten by a Viper for his faith; told off and told out of the Jerusalem council for his faith, and yet this man followed Jesus. 
Because he knew after encountering Jesus; that Jesus was real. So the question becomes, have you encountered Jesus? Is Jesus
to you real, and can that be dispatched to the four people that you consider precious enough to have them be disciples? Bring them back to Jesus.











RRR Patriotism
[42]We are in the midst of one of the most profound times perhaps in US history. We haven't seen anything like what's happening? Because I'm not sure that there's ever been anything like what's happening in America. You had gangsters and you had law enforcement, and you had a constant battle between them. But what's taking place today is much more extensive. We just witnessed the loss of a great campus evangelist and also a great campus representative of patriotism in America. Everyone calls him a conservative as though there were anything wrong with that. But actually, Charlie Kirk was not just a conservative, not just a Republican, he was a representative of patriotism, an idea we remember that has become in America, something that we either support or we don't. 
But do you know that evil wicked people in our midst have turned the concept of patriotism against our own country on behalf of what(?) some ideas of values and ethics that they portray as being more worthwhile than the actuality of being patriotic towards your country. A country that has given you everything blessed under God. So I hear people all the time. Tell me "I don't know if I see America in the New Testament? What do you think the eagle is? What do you think our national symbol is? What do you think our way of life is? What do you think our values are? What do you think our morals are? What do you think Americans think about trying to help one another?
I tell you that the thing that is actually going wrong in America is the same thing that brother Kirk saw going wrong in America, which is what his not-for-profit TPUSA is all about. And in 2025 that kind of movement, where what you're seeking to do is restore and recertify, takes a recounting, because when you recount how great this great country is when you recount the amazing things that America has done for you and if you really, really appreciate the freedom that we have; because we do have it now.
There were times in my life when I thought economics and money were the limiters of the freedom that I actually have, but I can go out get in my vehicle and drive anywhere in the United States that I've got gas to go to; and the great thing about America is, if a run out of gas. I can put my thumb out on the highway and I'm free to go. That's not true in many other places on this globe.
Now, yes there are a lot of other free countries but not like the United States of America, and so in my opinion, and this is just "Danaology." Yeah, America, most assuredly is in the Bible and God has most assuredly blessed this nation, which was formed by men and women who recertified their belief in Jesus Christ; their belief in the Bible. Remember that our founders left the Anglican oppression in England and escaped to become pilgrims in our nation. And people who retell history against those facts are retelling history inappropriately. Our nation was a God-fearing nation, and today we are slowly drifting away from that so when you recertify with your disciples and your learners, and you take them back to Jesus, make sure they understand patriotism.











RRR Group
[43]Always something to bear in mind no one can remember the things that are part of your existence and experience that are not also a part of theirs as a shared experience. So remember involves only you, if it doesn't involve others. So which are the richer memories? Those that involve just you or those that involve others and on top of that, which are even the more memorable, those times when you had you and perhaps one of the friend or those times when you had lots of folks around. And you were all celebrating, which is stronger? 
The time you met privately with a friend to confess that you had done something that you didn't need to do. And they listened and said it was going to be okay or the birthday party that everyone participated in and you all enjoyed memories are precious.
How we do them is a recounting thing, and how we recount them is magnificently important in our lives, the very words that we use to add up to the recounting matter. Every part of what we participate in as recounting matters. I've heard of philosophy that says a 100 years from now will anyone care? Well the problem with that kind of stoical statement is a 100 years from now nobody has any idea what anybody is gonna be caring about.
So the time that we need to be invested in recounting is precious time. Absolutely precious moments that we have to build up memories that are enjoyed marvelously. And one of the things that you can really learn how to do is how to express your recertification; in a massively impactful way.
This means that recertifying often involves a lot of learning and folks, sometimes think, "well, I don't want to go into a lot of learning," but Jesus didn't say go and make people dumb, make people stupid go and make people. incapable of learning, no, he said, go and make learners; disciples.
Now, we have adjusted it slightly to say, bring them back to Jesus, bring them back to Jesus, but that is also a form of massive learning of wisdom, because who is wiser than Christ? No, one. Who can give you more wisdom than the Holy Spirit? Only God The father only Christ the son. So God is God; Jesus is God; The Holy Spirit is God. God is not Jesus.
God is not the Holy Spirit, okay, so Jesus is not the Holy Spirit and the Holy Spirit is not Jesus. The Trinity is designed in a recertifying process for us that allows us to bring our disciples back to Jesus as a centering point to a magnificent triangulation of faithful momentum in order to make disciples of all nations, Jesus would not give a command that could not be followed? Would He?















RRR Fellowship
[44]Ever hear something and you say that's just profound? One time I heard somebody say that in order to love other people. You have to love yourself. In order to forgive other people, you have to forgive yourself. 
If you have an unforgiving spirit, if you have an unloving nature, you're gonna find it actually impossible to forgive other people and to be loving. I think one of the things that it's really good to remember is we're all sinners. We're all saved the same way; by grace through faith. We are all sinners, and the truth of the matter is we sin, constantly, not because we want to; not because it's deliberate, not because it's something that we feel that we have to do.

We sin volitionally; volitionally constantly, and here's the thing(!). Remember that because we're sinners, and because we're all saved in the same way, there are no levels to faith, there are no super saints. If you're born again, you're in the boat.
You wanna take a thought about recounting the fact, recertifying the fact that you're in the boat, the fellow ship and the fellowship means there's no superiority. There's humility and service that's what Jesus instructed us to be. Servants to one another serving one another.
You want to know what's hard to do? You want to know why the body of Christ is having difficulties in the "Rock-a-Billy's social media? Let's get it done in a second. And if you don't respond precisely, as I want you to, I'm going to be upset, buddy; age"? That's what's come upon us; in 2025; is instantaneous, everything we've gotten used to instantaneous everything, and we've also gotten used to disposable. So when it comes to recertifying faith, we've gotten used to the idea that if something doesn't work, you just throw it away, if you don't like something that someone's doing you just cancel him out, you just take them off your list of friends. You just don't have anything to do with them anymore.
And so when it comes to recertifying, we don't want to fight the fight that is involved in loving folks. Because love means discomfort. Agapao love means sacrificial love;and there isn't anything when it's sacrificial, that is not gonna cost you, and if it doesn't cost you, it's not sacrificial.
So the final step of recertifying your faith, you've remembered that you're a sinner saved by grace, and that we're all sinners, and that there are no super saints, and that you don't Lord anything over anybody in this walk with Jesus. And as you recount, the number of times that he's forgiven you for being how you are when you get that way, then it comes to the fact that we want to recertify that we are in touch with our own fallibility, and we want to let people that we're trying to bring back to Jesus, those people that were working with as disciples to bring them back to Jesus, we want to let them know, we know we're sinners.
One of the best things that Pastor Terry Hughes has ever done as a Pastor is he is humble, and he's humble when it comes to the fact of the matter that we're all sinners, and he has projected that loving nature he has into the body of Christ around him. He is a disciple maker of the first nature and a man that I am proud to say, is a fantastic Pastor.
When you are no longer working with your disciples. What will they say of you? I want your legacy to be that legacy, where people say, "You know, what(?) we knew Corrie, but we didn't know; she wrote that book? We didn't know about the hiding place. We didn't know she was gonna be Corrie Ten Boom, we just thought she was Corrie, who hung out with us." "We knew that was put upon her with the wheelchair, but to us she was just always Joni."
Listen You have the ability to touch people's lives that no one else can touch, don't ever let the adversary, Satan, take that away from you. Because Christ put that in you through his blood.

RRR Faith
[45]What is an aspect? An aspect is a slant. A side of a diamond . There are many different facets to a diamond. There are many different ways that light reflects through a diamond, adding aspects to the fact of the diamond in the beauty of the colors that are transmitted from the light. Remember that at 1 time you did not know Jesus. At all. 
Somehow, you were brought to a point where you began to recognize that he's for real. Then, came the moment when you realized that what you wanted to do was follow him. And the process of following him meant that you were going to have to deal with those ways that you did not adjust your life to live according to his standards of righteousness. So you would confess your sins. Remember that confessing your sins is absolutely necessary before you can repent.
Because you have to recognize that you have a difficulty; a problem; before any cure to the problem can be attempted. So confession and repentance are part of a natural paradigm of growth. When you move to recounting, you're recounting that growth, it's important to realize that that is meaningful to you as a Christian following Jesus, but it's going to be even more intensely meaningful to those that you are trying to give a hint to about what it means. To walk with the Lord, What it means to walk with Rabbi Jesus, it's incredibly important that the Rabbi's saying of being so close to the Rabbi that you get the dust of the Rabbi on your sandals is incredibly important.
When it comes to following Christ, be that close to him. When you recount those moments be able to transmit that to your disciples, when you're discipling someone you're simply bringing them back to Jesus, back to Jesus, and that process of recertifying your faith in Christ means that the obviousness of your confession and repentance should stand out so solidly, there is no way that your disciple could mistake it for anything else.
Therefore, there is very little of you left in any of the recertifying that you do, because what do you want to do? You want to emulate John the Baptist's famous statement that he must decrease because Christ must increase. You must decrease Christ must increase in everything that you do in every way that you say it, you have to bring your disciples to a point of respecting Jesus, a point of loving Jesus, a point of walking with Jesus, a point of confession and repentance, is a daily mode of life in contact with the Rabbi. The great and only Rabbi Jesus, whose dust we are unworthy to have on us. But whose dust we so desire to have as we walk that closely to the Rabbi that his dust will get on us.


















RRR Soon
[46]Remembering is so close to recounting, but it's different in the subtle way that remembering manages to bring in flavors that the more accounting resembling recount does not. And it's for a purpose.
Remembering is to fortify to lift up to elevate, to bring into more dense relationship with Christ, your faith. Remember that in the past, you're a sinner, so you've committed sins, and in the past, you've asked him to forgive you of your sins, and what has He done? And that remembering allows you to understand that no, we do not want to sin, because our way of living our way of understanding our way of relating to a holy God; is not the same at all? 
But by the same tick, by the same standard, we are sinners, we will fall, and when we do, what happens to us an extension of Grace by Christ. So Paul asked the question, well, does this mean that we can just go on sinning? And of course, the response is no. Our hearts are not that way slanted, our understanding is not that way. Given any wisdom that we get from the word indicates to us that that is our enemy, that is our death, that is our way of not having life.
But then the accuser, the adversary comes and whispers in your ear that it, you know, it's not that big a deal. It's, it's just eating something from a tree of knowledge, and why would he, why would he not want you to know that? The adversary uses our very senses against us? It will feel good, it will be okay nobody will know about it.
We count those times that grace has been extended to you when we didn't even have the sensibility as disciples to ask and confess and repent. Yeah, that's grace. So when we recertify our faith, when we recertify the fact that Christ has faith in us, not just that we have faith in him. But that He has faith in us.
Now the nature and determination of the project changes. It's not you seeking disciples whom you can disciple whom you can discover for that. You know, no, it's listening to the Holy Spirit and establishing relationships with 4, that he indicates to you that he wants to bring into the kingdom of God. And then bringing them back to Jesus, bringing them back to Jesus, that's making disciples getting them to learn with you to pray with you, to experiencing daily the majesty of the Hebrew language so that you can become deeper in your walk with Jesus Christ, because this is about Christ, it's not about us. 
It's about Christ, it's not about you. It's about those 4 disciples and their four and their four disciples and ad infinitum. It is not about you. It is a message from the Holy Spirit from the word from God Almighty, to people who do not know him via the only vehicle that will effectively reach them at this point.
And we're running out of what? Time, because none of us knows when Christ comes back, that's up to the Father; and it will be soon.













RRR Quiet
[47]It's very quiet right now. It's early. Remember that there was a time in your life when it was quiet. Remember that time? Remember that quiet. Quiet is an interesting place because we live in a noisy world. One of my favorite movie scenes is in a movie that many Christians just can't bring themselves to watch because it has a lot of R rated content in it. But it's called midnight in the garden of good and evil. It was a Clint
Eastwood movie and John Cusack is in it and he plays a New York reporter who brings a recording of the noise of New York City with him. And he plays it so he can sleep.
Imagine quiet. My bet is that you've never heard it much. One time we went camping in north Arkansas. With the youth group from the church, and it was up by a place called Albert Pike, I think it was; first of all, there was no noise in that forest. So when I recount that moment of remembering that quiet, I recount that as one of those times when miraculously, it was all so dark, because we're surrounded by so much ambient light in the United States of America, that many of us have never seen the darkened night sky. When your eyes get what's called dark acclimated, your pupils open up wide, and when you first see that Milky Way in a dark sky night, you gasp.
Because, you realize there is some power here that we simply cannot comprehend. And we make that statement, and what really makes me kind of giggle a little bit as a theologian, I mean, me, getting a doctorate in theology is kind of akin to a person with no arms and very little intelligence learning how to become a master French chef. It just should never have happened. But somehow we drove through all of the bureaucratic barriers that the seminaries try to throw up so that people cannot actually attain what they need to in order to study theology.
And so this recertification, is that Christ is so much more powerful than what we can apprehend, let alone comprehend. God is not a thinker like we think. His thought. His thoughts are not our thoughts. His ways are not our ways, and we read that in his word, the Bible, and we do not understand it.
 We believe that it is all so well-defined, and so well  defended that we've made it like a gigantic vault within  which we've placed what we believe is the truth. And the  fact of the matter is, he's always going to be immensely  bigger than anything that we can believe that we portray.  So recertify to your disciples that the Christ that they  serve isn't even bound by the grave. He is a resurrection power that no one can comprehend but can only apprehend, to love and ask forgiveness for our sins from and follow.

















Chapter Five
Defending
[48]Are there questions that don't get asked? Remember that there are always questions that don't get asked. And the reason that these questions don't get asked is that these questions make us uncomfortable.
Take, for example, a section of the New Testament, the gospel of John, that goes from 7:53 to chapter 8:11. And here's what it says "this paragraph can no longer be considered a part of the gospel of John, but it is in all probability a true story of Jesus."
Now, this comes from A.T. Robertson, in his harmony of the Gospels, which is copyrighted in 1922. And then this reprinted version is copyrighted 1950. A.T. Robertson's harmony of the Gospels, is considered as a seminal work and a great harmony of the Gospels, but it's his inserted comments that are great.
And this is at the bottom of page 115, he says that "in all probability, it is a true story of Jesus very likely, drawn by early students from the collection of Papa pious published about AD140, and he says that we should see Hovey on John, in the American commentaries on the New Testament, observe that without this section, 98 goes on right after 96." And that's in his harmony.
So this particular incident that most people are familiar with where they had set up a woman evidently, and so they're able to say as they come into the area there where Jesus is. And they throw her down at his feet. And they say we caught her in the very act. Well, there's only one way that they could catch her in the very act right? And the scribes and the pharisees bring a woman taken in adultery and having set her in the midst, they say unto him master. This woman has been taken in adultery in the very act. Okay, so how could that happen? If they hadn't been doing those sorts of things?
My point is that sometimes when you are trying to do good things, evil people, perhaps even people who believe that they are in the right And sometimes those are even the most evil of people? Because they believe that they're defending the righteousness of God, and they've chosen a course that's going to run contrary to the word of God, see, that's what's happening here, the very word of God, Jesus is in this temple area; and they bring this woman that they have obviously involved in a situation. And that's how they caught her in the very act, and they threw her down at his feet.
Because what they want to do is stone her. And very often, people who are defending religion defending the law, defending God, who, by the way, God needs no defending. Does He. Does God need any defending? His word is the Bible. Does the Bible need defending really? So what we've got here is an incident that never should have taken place.
But most people are familiar with the result. The result is the famous statement “The one of you who is without sin. Let you cast the first stone.” (Jn 8:7)
We live in an age in 2025 America, where casting stones has become an art form. Is that the art form that you wanna pass on to disciples? I think not. What we might want to pass on to disciples is something called the great love and sacrifice of Jesus Christ, who bled on a cross that our sins might be forgiven. Let's pass that on to disciples.






Enemy
[49]In 2012, Ron Carpenter Jr., wrote an amazing book called "The Necessity of an Enemy.," and in it what he proposes; is that enemies make us stronger? Because we have something to fight against. And as we fight against it, we gain strength; that if there is no fight against an enemy, then your strength wanes. It's a good idea. It's a great book, and it makes a great deal of sense.
Because the adversary to God is; at least the adversary to God on earth is; Lucifer, Satan cast down-to-earth and this evil Satan is the enemy of Christianity. The enemy of God; Certainly, the enemy of Christ and one of the things that in Christianity today is taking place is the merging of cancel culture thinking into Christianity as a standard. So what's that mean well, in Christianity(?) today there's the big moral push.
Don't watch movies that are going to have a bad influence on your morals and ethics. My suggestion would be that what that is; is a replacement of Christ culture now don't misunderstand me.
I believe that if you read the Bible daily. If you pray all through the day and you have a relationship with Jesus and you keep that relationship alive. I believe you're going to run headlong into a world that doesn't; now if you don't know anything about that world that world will shock the life out of you. But if you understand that an understanding of the world supersedes the power of the world, so you don't get caught aghast.
All right, let's make that make scriptural sense, how many times in the New Testament; do you see Jesus saying to the scribes, the recorders of the law that then became interpreters of the law that then became this very powerful Sanhedrin group. How often do you see Jesus saying to the scribes? "Oh, man, you got me with that one. I hadn't thought of that."
How about with the Pharisees? How often does he say to the pharisees; "Wow, you sure outwitted me with that little political maneuver that you made there to try to catch me, boy, you guys are sharp." I don't remember ever reading anything like that. In fact, Jesus was so sharp that he was ahead of all of the curves with even the symbol representing the religion and the faith in Jesus Christ ichthyus the fish. Because the Romans had a fish God. So they had no problem with Christians going around making fish symbols. They thought they were worshiping the Roman fish god.
Now, look, we need to understand that canceling out certain portions of things that represent evil in our lives; really doesn't make sense in terms of understanding what it is that we're up against! So Ron Carpenter Jr. has this great book. "The Necessity of an Enemy," and I gotta tell you, he makes a great deal of sense, because your strength as a Christian becomes stronger when you're up against it than when you're not. When is your faith strongest, I've often heard and I think it's probably true; when the only thing that you've got to rely on is God; and you rely on God, your faith is strong.

Paul said that when he was weak; then, he was actually strong? Faith, is an odd opposite to no faith. You can't be apathetic. You can't be a wet one. You can't be the one that Jesus spews out of his mouth because you're apathetic; and be a Christian, it just doesn't fit together. So be sure to consider these thoughts when you're thinking about what it means to bring disciples to Jesus Christ. 






Bearing
[50]Forty seven years ago. November 11th 1978, I received the Gen. Douglas MacArthur award for distinguished leadership from the Bad Toelz NCO Academy, Seventh Army NCO Academy.
It was a high point a real high point, because what they instructed us in was bearing, courage, decisiveness, dependability, endurance, enthusiasm initiative, integrity, judgment, justice, loyalty, knowledge, tact and unselfishness. The characteristics of a leader.
And the shocking thing to me was that the staff sergeant in charge of teaching leadership said that in the opinion of most military greats such as Eisenhower, Patton Marshal, etc., the greatest military leader of all time, was Jesus Christ Because with 12 men, he changed the world forever. 
Now that was a little bit shocking to me, because you would expect, great
military leaders, Alexander the Great; Hannibal things like that. Marcus Aurelius out of Rome, but no in their opinion, in these real military men; this staff sergeant had seen 3 tours of combat in name; these were rugged military, fighting men, and in their opinion, the greatest leader was Jesus Christ.
That first characteristic of bearing is a characteristic that you can actually learn and improve upon. Bearing is not just that you are clean in appearance and well-dressed and well-groomed. Bearing is also the attitude that you bring with you that you have. Within you, the control and discipline and power to examplify what it means to be a better person to other people around you. Bearing comes from within, as well as from without, it is an internal set of decisions in standards and values in paradigms.
Bearing is incredibly important. Now, obviously the list of characteristics is alphabetized, so bearing would be first, but in many instances without bearing how can an individual lead and this is where the questions get deeper. What kind of bearing did our Savior Christ exemplify?
My statement would be perfect bearing. Because when challenged in ways that none of us can even actually fathom, in other words, if you were stood up and it was told to you. If you will say one thing you will live, but if you say another, you will die. And you choose to say the thing that would keep you alive. We call that sane rational, but last couple of years back; over 1200 people made the choice to maintain their faith and be martyred, and we don't hear about these in the news.
You don't hear about these, but if you go and become a part of a group called the voice of the martyrs, then you will hear these sorts of information's and facts that you don't hear commonly in the marketplace of information. What is bearing, sometimes bearing means bearing up under the load.
And sometimes; sometimes, bearing isn't pretty, but bearing is absolutely essential, so when you're dealing with your disciples bear in mind that it's important to have great bearing.










Courage
[51]Courage is a word that gets thrown around a lot. And people have a lot of interesting pithy, sayings about courage, courage is not the ability to just stand there and fight without any sense of fear, courage, is the ability to fight in the face of fear.
I personally like Winston Churchill's quote that says "Courage is what It takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen." I really like Winston Churchill when it comes to statements about courage, because if it weren't for Churchill, I'm not sure that we'd be speaking American in America, I think we might be speaking German. But I don't know for sure, history has been kind to us in America. History has been very kind. We are a fortunate nation. We are a nation, however, founded. I believe personally on courage.
If you had to take one of the traits of leadership from bearing courage, decisiveness, dependability, endurance, enthusiasm, initiative, integrity, judgement, justice, knowledge, loyalty, tact and unselfishness. If you had to take one, that is absolutely indispensable, it would be integrity. But if you had to take the number two and 3 bearing and courage would be in there, somewhere. Courage is the thing that, you know, a person has, you just know. They have it, and you follow a person with courage, because, you know that what they're talking about is real.
I've heard lots of people make lots of speeches. And I've heard lots of statements made about things that are courageous, but I have personally known a courageous man who stood there in the face of opposition and took it. And took it and took it again, and he wasn't a big time politician. He certainly could have been he could have been very high up in the political structure, but he chose to remain local, and he chose to fight the honest and true fight, I got to know him personally.
And one thing. about courage that I can tell you; those who are courageous, don't really have a big deal about themselves about being courageous. I don't know really the right words. They're not braggadocios about being courageous, because they know that courage is being afraid, but functioning anyway. John Wayne said, courage is being full of fear, but saddling up anyway,  you talk about somebody with courage I tell you that John Wayne lived an enormous life.
A big life but where he became most courageous was when he faced certain death. And he didn't lose his courage, and he didn't lose, spirit and a lot of people didn't love John Wayne because of his political stances; but I'm going to tell you right now. The man has been indispensable in American history, especially for those people who grew up watching movies in the 60s. He was an immense movie star.
I loved his Westerns and what was the deal in a John Wayne western? The good guys won  the bad guys lost and that's how it was; but always he was fighting a fight where his back  was against the wall and he had to display courage. Sometimes courage means that you're  not going to do something that if you do it, it's going to result in something happening that  will be simple and easy, but courage means not doing it. And taking the harder result,  courage is a difficult thing to talk about. It is an incredibly difficult thing to emulate. So I believe that courage in our day and time is seen; so much in our armed forces, people who have to fight in countries that we will never inhabit to maintain a peace and freedom that many times we very, very loosely appreciate.
Now most of us; you put our back up against the wall in America, we appreciate freedom, and we say thank you to the troops who defend it. Most of us. But there's a faction of America. Where you have to defend free speech and their right to exist that don't believe in such things, I have no idea what they believe in.
I have no idea why they live in America, because they don't really support freedom, and really courage is just an absolute essential aspect of freedom with no courage, there is no freedom. And of course, with no freedom. How can there be courage?
So courage is a supporting foundation that you want to pass on to your disciples about Jesus Christ, who was the most courageous of all.

Deciseiveness
[52]Years ago, there was a movement in business, especially in business schools, universities and colleges had to do with just make a decision! Because after the decision. Obviously there's going to have to be adjustments and there are always adjustments in every project that's ever proposed. So the big statement was just make a decision.
Well, here's the thing about decisiveness. It's not so much that you're just making a decision, it's actually taking into consideration the factors that need to go into the result that you're considering. So decisiveness is a learned behavior and it's very much a behavior that can be improved upon.
I love to play Chess. And more than loving to play it, I love to win and I hate to lose, but I also just love to play the game. Well here's the thing after learning a style of opening in Chess. You can win an awful lot of games because it's a very hard opening to combat against. So there's some decisiveness involved in that; decisiveness is not just jumping blithely off the cliff, and saying, I hope something catches me on the way down. That's not decisiveness. Most folks would say that has to be considered foolishness, so decisiveness is extremely important in leveled amounts.
It means weighing things out there's a statement in the old testament "Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin;" (Dan 5:25 vv.) it was the handwriting on the wall. It said that the Empire was in trouble, it said that the king was in dire trouble and what it said was that his life was weighed and found wanting in the measure. Decisiveness is weighing the good against the bad, and so it is, in some sense, a dichotomous decision-making process. But much of what
decisiveness involves is not just a dichotomy's oppositional kind of logic, but a way of looking at things from the other aspect, looking at things from not just the result, but from even the effort of the journey that goes into the result.
Decisiveness is a learned behavior and as a learned behavior it is one that can be improved upon. So one thing to pass on to your disciples is that if they feel like they are not capable of being decisive even after prayer, even after spending time with the master Jesus; because if there's ever been a master of decisiveness, it was Jesus Christ, and so even after spending time with the master. If they feel inadequate about decision-making processes. Take some time to learn; particularly logic. Particularly, the ways that decisions are made, because decisiveness can be improved upon.
So don't ever think that you can't improve upon it and pass that on to those who are learners that when you're striving to get closer to Jesus and back to Jesus, decisiveness would seem to be a pre-thought to a permanent thought to make that happen regularly.















Dependability
[53]Dependability means more than just being able to be trusted to be somewhere at a specific time and event. Dependability means that you have shoulders that can be leaned on. You have strength of character that can be trusted, that you can be depended upon, to act and react to certain circumstances in certain ways.
Dependability in a leader means that when you suggest to folks, or even order folks that something must be done; that you've thought it through that you're not going to ask them to do something that you yourself would not be willing to do. So that the reason that you're delegating is not because you don't want to do it, but because you have the idea. And it needs to spread, and it needs to be done by other people. In order that the overall progress of the organization can be furthered, so dependability in a leader is an essential trait, and it is fundamentally a trait that can be learned.
All of my life. because I grew up basically as a single child. And so I was given many things that many other children didn't get, but in terms of family. I was a single child, no brothers, no sisters. So the sets of responsibilities that I had in my life were organised around myself, which gives you a very self centered approach to life. So dependability is not one of your real structural components, you tend to be rather wishy wash most of the time. Single children often have a difficulty with this.
So dependability is important because it can be learned. I remember the first time that I took training about this. It had never dawned on me. The importance of time and the importance of being on time for events or meetings or circumstances involving other people.
Dependability means that not only are you there on time, but actually you're early. Why(?) out of respect for their time? Because what's one of the most precious things that we have; time? And so to abuse it by being late; to me now; is just an unconscionable thing.

But earlier in my life, I didn't view it that way; earlier in my life, if I was 10 minutes late for a meeting; I was 15 minutes early, which is a crazy way to live. However, creative people sometimes have this nuance. They're not as aware of time as other people are. So I think that sometimes it's important to understand in dependability that there is this, rogue attitude that must be dealt with, and it has to be brought under constraint and discipline.
And so that's one of the things about dependability is, are you capable of being disciplined? Are you capable of handling being dependable? Can you be trusted to be on time? Can you be trusted to do what needs to be done? If you're told to do 10 tasks, can you be trusted to accomplish all 10 or are you going to stop at 8 and then say that the other two were just too difficult?
When it comes to dependability. It's one of the things that you can learn, and it's one of the things that once you learn, it is very helpful to you and to other people.
So when you're working with your disciples, remember that dependability is a set of circumstances that is dependent upon you to function at your peak, when you need to function at your peak, and you need to do whatever you need to do. In order to be in that frame of mind, pass that onto your disciples when it comes to relating to Jesus Christ; is the master, understand that he is the master for a reason. So if we follow him, we're doing the correct things that we need to do.




Endurance
[54]Endurance is easy to say very difficult to prove out. What does endurance mean? If  you really want to test endurance, just to see how long your endurance actually is,  get somebody with a gallon jug of water in a car. And just take off, walking and let  them follow you and just walk until you can't walk anymore. You may make 3  miles, you may make 5 miles, but at some point you're gonna say, this walking is getting old, get in the car, have a drink and you'll know your level of walking endurance, you'll know how long you can keep on walking without it being to the point where you don't feel like walking any more.
We view endurance with several different aspects of perspectives and vantage points. Endurance is also easily associated with long distance running. People are familiar with the idea of building up endurance, but in Christianity, building up endurance, takes on an entirely different meaning we think of and usually hear sermons about testing. How the Lord will put us in circumstances that will measure our faith from which we learn whether or not we have enduring faith. And also there is this term in the New Testament martyrios, which is the term martyr. And it is the idea that you have to make choices that run up against your faith, and most of the time, those choices are rarely direct. They're mostly very indirect, so you're not really sure, is this a faith choice, a measure of endurance, a test, what's going on?
Satan uses that confusion to try to fool people into not thinking that they have endurance, when in reality, if their back was up against the wall, they have a lot more endurance, and a lot more faith in what they would realize or give themselves credit for having. And by doing so they take away credit from the Savior who died on the cross and shed his blood that they might have the availability of that endurance. 
Peter said we could endure. Paul said we could endure; John says we can endure; Jude says we can endure; Philemon, says we can endure. Endurance is a statement of the New Testament Peter endured? After denial, Peter endured in the face of direct instruction in discipline by Jesus in in front of the other disciples, whom Peter had been leading; as one of the primary disciples to Christ. Peter James and John, the men who had gone up on the Mount of Transfiguration, and now, here's Jesus addressing Peter about the issue of whether or not Peter loves him?
Peter's faith endured. It endured through that kind of trial, it endured through the trial of his life of building the church, and overcoming his own set of Jewish instructions and legal ideas, people think that Peter was prejudiced against the gentiles. That's not the case. Peter was Jewish. He had Jewish thinking in his background, and so he wanted to observe the things that he was supposed to observe about proper food etiquette; while the Lord instructed him about a huge amount of ethics and ways and choices of morality that he should make regarding not just food but the gentiles! That which God had created, he said when He brought down all of those different creatures in the sheet, that which he had created is not unclean, and therefore you can partake of it, but it had to be shocking to Peter that vision. Look at Paul! Paul, the apostle to the gentiles, the one who had started out persecuting the the Christian church persecuting those who had turned from what Paul believed was proper Judaism, educated at the feet of Gamiliel, the head rabbi of Jerusalem; Paul had endurance, Paul endured. What(?) longsuffering sweeping shipwrecks being bitten by Paul endured?
He had enduring faith and that creates the question for all of us in modern Christianity. Do we have enduring faith? And my contention is, yes, you do. And my Also contention is, if you will give yourself and your Savior credit and Holy Spirit sway in your life, you will discover endurance that will surprise even you, and then it will certainly surprise disciples that you are bringing to Christ?
Enthusiasm
[55]As we go through these characteristics of a leader, these are all pronounced  characteristics. They are things that leaders have learned to emulate, and to teach  others how to emulate, and for they themselves as leaders to emulate, but most  normally, these are characteristics that individuals possess, because as they've  grown up, they've been educated by leaders as leaders.
But that is kind of changing in our culture. It's hard to explain the difference between a family that is patriarchal with a father who is present. Who is himself a leader and is teaching his children leadership and a non patriarchal family that is not centered in that way. So those lessons aren't passed on in that way. I'm thinking about such men as, for example, Gen. Patton and the relationship that he had with his father see those kinds of dominant leading men.
Well, I think that they are changing in our culture, and I believe that in our culture, we need to get back to the kind of individual who understands enthusiastically, because here we're talking about enthusiasm, an individual who understands enthusiastically that it is important that what you have and understand to be a level of joyous excitement about things that is, enthusiasm; is not something that has to come from some external motivating factor but rather enthusiasm comes from an inner part of you where you are in touch with a deeper joy, that resides within you.
When I remember the kinds of behaviors that I had as a younger man, when I did not have a relationship with Jesus Christ, those were enthusiastic days undoubtedly, and I was always known as a kind of positive and joyous individual, although not necessarily a happy individual. And I think that after Christ, people would generally say that I was a joyous individual, that it was a rare day when you saw me, when I wasn't joyous and smiling and enjoying life
And in fact, enjoying life became my pattern of existence, because what was there not to enjoy when I had a relationship with Jesus Christ(?);and Jesus himself brings joy into your heart in the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life is all of the enthusiasm that you could ever want or wish or ask for.
And that includes those times when things really aren't going good. When things aren't really as you would like them, when you've run out of gas in the middle of a stretch of of the dark portions of the highway. And you don't know where in the world, you're going to go to get gas, and someone comes driving up and says, Hey, you look like, you need a hand what can I do to help you out?
Enthusiasm comes when you are down. I mean, down you have just been through a test that you failed or a job that you lost or a health crisis, that was beyond description and you are down and enthusiasm comes from within you, built by the power of the Holy Spirit in you.
That brings this residing deep well of joy where you realize this momentary difficulty is gonna pass. Because as the Bible says, joy comes in the morning and Jesus Christ is the bright and morning star.









Initiative
[56]Initiative is a strange characteristic. Because a person who takes initiative is a different kind of an individual. And we all know that because we see people who are going to the front, to make sure that things take place, and we wonder, where does that come from(?); initiative can be a learned characteristic. Because if you stand back and you look at a picture image and you think, you know, that skyline would be perfect. If it only had one more tall building in there, initiative is drawing in that building, and then painting it in; so that the painting will be complete, or another way to look at it is an individual with initiative; sees that something needs to take place.

For example, if there's a lack of general education about how to repair things initiative goes toward trying to help others learn how to do that. I have a friend who's a plumber And what he discovered is that other plumbers weren't being created weren't being taught, weren't being mentored. So initiative is seeing that. And then doing something about it, it's important because initiative comes from within you, but it is also a learned characteristic.
And that you can see initiative in others, and you can learn by watching what they do, how it is that you can emulate, what initiative is. So initiative sees that there is something, for example, young people  who do not know how to drive, and they don't have parents who take them out and  teach them how to drive, so what's needed? Aha, a driver's education class initiative  is the individual who says, you know what I'll do it, I'll sit with them in a car while  they learn how to drive. That's initiative is making that class happen.
But it comes from within, you, not from without side Now, there is also a kind of initiative that comes from outside, which is to say that there is a cause of causes, let's say that there is a very obvious difficulty in the culture there is something lacking. That needs to happen. What I'm thinking of now is the kinds of situations that developed places where people could gather and jointly benefit one another and these kinds of clubs and organizations used to be very popular, because it was where young men who didn't have fathers could go to learn what it was like to be a young man. These were called young men's Christians association YMCA.
Today, those have largely been attacked as not being places of good growth; anymore. But at one time that was the place to be. Initiative, was the individual who put those places into existence. Well, why have those Places come under attack. Why have those programs gone out of being so popular? It has to do with the inner moral construct of our culture today and the inner ethical immoral challenges to our culture today. And that's a gap in our culture.
And there's a very dire need for someone with some initiative to go into the culture and to provide those kinds of situations where folks can learn proper etiquette, proper training, proper actions, proper behaviors, the way that we can all get along better initiative is seeing to it, that those things take place.
Initiative is very difficult to explain when Jesus went to the cross. It was under his own initiative because being God, Jesus could have not done that, but being God, Jesus had to do that in order that his blood could be shed. To save you to provide redemption for you from your sense, so with your disciples, you want to be sure to share with them that when taking the initiative, they want to make it in such way that it's going to be beneficial to others. 



Integrity
[57]Integrity is one of those words that everyone thinks that they understand what it means and they probably basically do. And that they would define it, as don't ever lie. However, there's a lot more to integrity than that.
Because in the considerations of what it means to have a leader who has bearing, courage decisiveness, dependability, endurance, enthusiasm, who has this quality of initiative. Then, there is integrity, but there's also a sense of justice, a sense of judgment, knowledge, loyalty, tact and unselfishness.
But integrity is the prime factor when you're talking about, who, what, when where, how or why of any event that takes place in a person's life, and any information concerning that event, no matter what the event is, the event can be as simple as a family dinner well, who's going to be involved? In it, where's it going to be? When's it going to take place? What are we having to eat? And why are we having this? This family dinner at this time is a regular thing. Do we always meet and have dinner every night?
Which you're going to find in America is not usually the case anymore used to be my family always had dinner regularly at 5:30 in the afternoon. And everybody in the family was expected to be there. Then, there were few exceptions. And if you didn't show up, you better have a very good reason because Grandma Tot had been cooking all day and she would let you know. "I've been cooking all day and you couldn't even be here on time?" On time was part of the thing.
And on time is part of integrity, because integrity encompasses who you are not just what you are not just why you're doing, what you're doing, not just when you're doing it. And not just, you know, whereabouts, you're doing it or who you're doing it with integrity involves all of those things. So integrity is a big word, and to a leader; to someone who's going to lead people, the primary factor is this. Can they trust you? Can they trust you?
Can these people put their faith in you now when it comes to disciples? And it comes to Jesus, my suggestion is always bring people back to Jesus which means in our time, bring them to prayer and the Holy Spirit but mostly bring them to what the Bible, the word of God. And defend the truth of the Bible, defend the absolute factual truth of the Bible.
The archeological discoveries that have supported the Bible, the fact that the Bible constantly says that there are archeological facts that at first many people who are into archeology deny, and then later on, they discover "guess what?" the Bible was right.
For example in Luke, he says that the reason that Joseph and Mary had to go to Bethlehem to get her to have Jesus, was to be measured, measured for a census, because Quirinius was the governor do you know for years? Historians said Quirinius wasn't the governor that was a mistake. Guess what they've discovered within the last couple decades. Yeah, as a matter of fact, he was the governor; as a matter of fact; the political climate and scenario of that realm involving Pontius Pilate and everything else had to change in order; that Quirinius would be the governor so when Luke said that he was exactly correct, the Bible is exactly correct. We're talking about a set of writings that historically read you; as you read them. Put together by 40 different authors over a period of 1500 years. On as many as 5 or six different continents, or as many as I've heard 15 different continents; and in as many as 4 primary different languages, Greek Hebrew, Latin and Aramaic, but also I think there's maybe a fifth language in there that has to do with Cyrillic or Sumerian languages. So the Bible is an absolutely truthful document.

Why? Because it has over 16000 different links between the prophets and the book of revelation of John, there are over 16000 connecting links of interlinking facts. There's over 315 times that the prophecies of Christ, as the messiah, are exactly correct down to the fact that he would ride a donkey into Jerusalem that had never been broken. Which is exactly like, what is prophesied of him?
So when you're talking to your disciples about integrity, and you're talking to your disciples about working with their people in a way that they can be trusted, what does that really add up to I think in your case, because you're taking the time to learn this. Yes, it means a lot. I think Christ and the Holy Spirit and God are proud of the fact that you're getting involved. Trying to help people come back to Jesus and come back to Jesus, in the New Testament, come back to the Bible, come back to prayer, rededicate, re-confess and repent, and live a life of repentance. Solidarity, and that is integrity, I think.
Judgement
[58]First Kings, chapter 3 verses 16 through 28. Tells the story that one day, 2 women came to king Solomon, and one of them said your majesty, this woman, and I live in the same house not long ago. My baby was born at home in 3 days later, her baby was born. Nobody else was there with us one night while we were all asleep. She rolled over on her baby and he died. Then while I was still asleep, she got up and took my son out of my bed, she put him in her bed, then she put her dead baby next to me in the morning, when I got up to feed my son, I saw that he was dead. But when I looked at him in the light, I knew he wasn't my son, the other woman shouted, he was your son, my baby is alive. The dead baby is yours, the first woman yelled mine is alive. They argued back-and-forth in front of Solomon, and finally, he said, both of you say this live baby is yours someone bring me a sword. A sword was brought in Solomon, ordered. Cut the baby in half that way each of you can have part of him. Please don't kill my son the baby's mother screamed your majesty. I love him very much, but give him to her. Just don't kill him. The other woman shouted go ahead and cut him in half. Then neither of us will have the baby. Solomon said, don't kill the baby, then he pointed to the first woman. She is his real mother, give the baby to her. Everyone in Israel was amazed when they heard how Solomon has made his decision, they realize that God had given him wisdom to judge fairly. 
When we discuss judgment It's almost impossible not to go back into this incident. This story, of course, it's interesting to realize how many thousands of years have passed since this story took place. But here it is, etched in clay and passed down to us so that we have this record of this amazing decision. This is judgment.
There's a famous movie. Many current generation Gen Z's and millennials have not heard of; but it's a it's a movie called "Judgment at Nuremberg, “and Judgment at Nuremberg is about the time when the planet Earth wanted revenge. They wanted revenge on Adolf Hitler and his henchman, not saying that that revenge wasn't merited, not saying that that revenge wasn't even in good keeping, with steadfast justice; which we're gonna discuss next, but in terms of judgment, Judgment at Nuremberg  is in the very title of the movie? And actually, this is a dramatization of actual events.
This trial really took place. What is judgment? How do you judge? Well, one of the things about judgement is this. There's a famous passage in the Old Testament, where
it talks about the prophet, Daniel and handwriting on the wall. And we realise that, that handwriting was there, and that was miraculous, and the frightening the king was miraculous. But the truth of the prophecy was that your life has been weighed and found wanting. 
Judgment is often pictured as a lady blindfolded with scales in her hands (Justice), meaning that the good and the bad have to be weighed, and what overcomes the other is how the weight falls down on one side, or the other. Judgment is not a simple dichotomous matter; we would love it to be. We would love things to be black and white, but are things ever black and white?
When Jesus was dealing with the Pharisees, I am now discovering after many years of research and study that these were actually people that may have been in his lineage, because they may have arisen, the Pharisees, from within the line of the Lion of the tribe of Judah. So it's important to understand that many times what we think is an accurate judgment may, in fact not be an accurate judgment.
So how do you know(?) well judgment can most definitely be learned? Take courses on decision-making, take courses on logic. Learn about logic, read about logic, read about decision-making because it's not just a blind process where you throw issues up against the wall and see if they'll stick! Judgment means that you have taken the time to bother to gain the knowledge to properly assess situations.
Justice
[59]Justice, well, we could try to define justice. We could think about justice as the absence of injustice. That's always an interesting way to think about things. The opposite of dark is the presence of light? That in a totally dark room lighting, just a small candle, takes all of the total darkness out. However darkness has a power to it. In a totally dark room, you and I both know that, that little candle's light; yes, it shines bright down in that corner. But it does not light up and illuminate the whole room.
Justice is not a concept. Although it is an idea and a concept; justice is a result. Justice is the action that takes place and is a result of what is happening in the life. So justice is an outcome, and justice is also the input to achieve that outcome. Justice is not as easily understood, nor defined as we might believe. We have certain paradigms in our minds that we believe define justice, and therefore, we believe and think that we understand justice.

But there is so much human emotion and feeling tied into justice. But many times that's not justice, it's revenge. And very clearly in the Bible, God says that vengeance belongs to him and him alone, and we have trouble understanding that in our sense of self, our ego our pride, our human and our humanity and our way of believing in ourselves. And there is nothing wrong in believing in yourself, but if you don't temper that belief in yourself with an understanding of almighty God, before whom you bow. What hope have we for justice?
We know justice. We know justice in the sense of most of us root for the underdog, it's almost the American culture to root for the underdog, or at least at one time it used to be, however, nowadays. There's a subtle shift, we no longer really cheer on the underdog. Do we want what(?) the winner we want the Nietzsche Superhuman, we don't want to have to go through rooting for the underdog and climbing to success, we just want success.
We want to train for and achieve perfection, and guess what(?) we are imperfect, and you are imperfect, and anyone around you who likes to try to believe and support and exist in a perfection; is lying to themselves because it is human to be imperfect. And imperfection means that we are by nature under Dogs and we are by nature, inclined to be seeking after justice.
Justice means rectifying. Justice means sanctifying or being set aside. Justice means that you are in a position where what was wrong against you can be made right. It does not mean that the judgement that said that you were guilty was in error? In fact, that judgement was probably correct. What it does mean is that in justice there is a sense that there can be a restoration, a redemption, and that's really the story of the Bible. Isn't it?
And that's really the story that you want to pass to your disciples, about the Jesus that you're bringing them back to, isn't it, that he redeems us with his precious blood. And that, when we confess and repent of our sins, he is faithful and righteous to forgive us, since he doesn't wag his stern finger against us and condemn us and say that there is no redemption.

No, he allows by grace, redemption. Redemption that any human finds so remarkable that it may be an essential painting of justice.





Knowledge
[60]Any fool can know. The point is to understand. -Albert Einstein.
Knowledge is power. -Sir Francis Bacon.
An investment in knowledge, always pays the best interest. -Benjamin Franklin
If you have knowledge, let others light their candles in it. -Unknown?
So we have a lot of sayings about knowledge. We have a lot of knowledge about knowledge, and you probably believe that you understand what knowledge is?
So one of the things that we want to try to understand is that knowledge is not just something that you possess inherently, and naturally, but that knowledge is one of those attributes that can be enhanced through a process of education, knowledge is not just retention. Knowledge is not just the ability to spew back out what you have taken in; there is some mysterious aspect to knowledge that has to do with its use; its application?
And then there is a thing about knowledge that is visionary. The individual who can look at a street and see that it doesn't go far enough. And that if it were connected with another street, it would form a way for people to get from point A to point B without as much hassle. And that's vision. Vision is seeing things as they are. And then seeing things as they might be improved, and then seeing what those improvements might amount to and then seeing what those improvements might amount to.
What I'm thinking of now is something that you've seen all of your life which is the change that has taken place in you, the reason that you read this material, the reason that you take in the Bible daily. The reason that you pray; pray for knowledge. If you want to have your knowledge increased and you do not pray for your knowledge to be increased; your knowledge may be increased anyway, but it won't be increased as easily and it won't be increased as gratefully and it won't be increased in as much totality as it could be, if you had prayed for knowledge.
Something that we don't talk about in our culture. Because we; Me; in the American culture in 2025, and even in the global culture in 2025; have begun to become independent in our belief about acquisition. We believe that a person should stand on their own two feet.

Be all that you can be.
Be as strong as you're capable of being.

And not depend upon anything or anyone else. And that runs in the face of Christianity, which says, kneel before your King Jesus and depend not upon your strength but upon his. And that difference makes a great deal of difference; when it comes to knowledge.
Knowledge, that's just acquired for knowledge's sake; will become knowledge that becomes stale because it will not become used. Knowledge that is only acquired for the individual to enhance the individual's understanding of something is not knowledge that is used; and knowledge that is not used is knowledge that is abused.  Knowledge that is not used is knowledge that is abused. 
If you don't remember anything else remember this, the acquisition of knowledge is not about you, it's about disciples. Learners that you're going to bring to Jesus, you bring them constantly back to Jesus.
That knowledge is eternally blessing knowledge.
Some knowledge blesses right now. This instance, today, the kind of knowledge that makes life right now today better. Enhances the life that you have right now. Today, better, like good Creamer, with a great flavor in a good cup of coffee. It enhances the coffee right now. Today, but let that sit there for a while and then see how good it tastes in a couple of days?
Knowledge without use becomes stale, use the knowledge that you have, but constantly gain in; refresh, new knowledge. How(?) by reading, reading; constantly?
Reading; reading is much better than listening, and you're listening, but I hope that you're also reading. Bring your disciples to Jesus. Bring them back to Jesus. And that my friend might be the beginning of an adequate statement about what it means to have knowledge.
Loyalty
[61]Loyalty is a trait that we believe that we understand because loyalty is something that we believe that we can easily see. And that we can render into a believable category in our minds, as we think about what it means to have the characteristic of loyalty. 
But loyalty may not be exactly what we think most of the time. For
example, when a person is with someone everyday day in Day Out, 24/7 is that loyalty or is that presence? Does presence merit loyalty?
Here's a simple contention to consider. Loyalty is the characteristic of an individual being by your side; when being by your side is going to cost them. Now loyalty is also the characteristic of remaining in your way of teaching or in the master's way of teaching when that's going to have a cost ascribed to it. Otherwise, it isn't necessarily loyalty so much as it might be merely a relationship. A loving relationship, a friendship, a loving friendship, a kind relationship that exists among people among human beings.
But when we talk about Jesus, and we talk about loyalty, it's really not something that you can describe with adequate words, for example. When Jesus went to the cross, only one disciple is recorded as standing with Christ's mom and the other ladies; that were there at the cross. And that was John the other disciples left and we don't know exactly why they left.
I don't know that the Bible spells out why they left. We presume that they left for many different motives. Maybe fear may be trying to prepare for something else. Maybe they simply didn't have any clue at all what was going on? And at that moment, would they be guilty of disloyalty or not being loyal? That we don't really know?
And in my sense, it's best never to presume. But here's one thing that we can for a fact know. John was loyal. And loyalty in this instance meant that it would cost him. Because we believe that John was the son of a rather well off man. And that he was also probably a Rabbi, a well represented member of the synagogue, who now because of this deeper association with Christ, who is hanging on the cross and being crucified by the Romans, John is setting his future interactions in terms of any religious merit, which in the synagogue; was essential and for a rabbi to exist was essential. John is setting his course in a whole different direction.
Based upon his association to a leader, a loyal follower is one who is with them when the chips are down. When everything is going fine, when everything is going good, there's nothing to standing with the leader. But when a leader is getting blasted when they're getting lamb basted when they're getting talked about in mean and cruel ways, standing by them, and often even standing by them, when they have no idea that you're standing by them; is one of the most important aspects of loyalty.
Because nothing calms the quacking tongues of gossiping folk, more than an individual who says that's not how it is because I know this leader, and that's not how they are.
Now in the case of your disciples in bringing them back to Jesus is Jesus loyal, how about 100%? And what actually is forgiveness and grace, if not the characteristic of loyalty to his people whom He has saved. So who better to bring a disciple back to than one who is 100% loyal, and to point to Jesus and say this Is the definition of loyalty?








Tact
[62]The idea of tact is often more easily expressed than being  tactful itself. Tact is explained in many different ways, but  it actually is an ability to allow people to do the things that  they most naturally would like to do anyway, allow people  to make the choices that they need to make in order to  satisfactorily, live out their lives with as much dignity as possible; with as much respect as possible with as much favorability as possible; amongst each other. And that's a difficult thing because all of us are so different and all of us are so devoted to our differences. Even though we'd like to think that we're not. That in the instance of an individual who is so tightly wound to their own perception of who they must be; with regard to other people around them. Tact is a trait that is really appreciated when it's applied, but very difficult sometimes to master. When we were in the military, it was said the tact is the ability to get soldiers to follow you into hell and to thank you for the journey.
I don't know if that's a good explanation of tact, but I know the tact involves the ability to express what needs to be done to other people without them being offended in the process, but nevertheless getting the process done, and often this means something that's not going to be comfortable to them. 
I always remember my football coach and I always remember that he would say to us things about needing to practice and needing to become stronger. And he was saying words that had pain in them, because trust me, when I tell you that two a day practices are painful.
But in the end, when you have applied those 2 a day practices to the routines of running your plays in a game, you win. And so the exercise of tact in behalf of the coach in getting us to do those things that we needed to do. And yet, not losing any dignity and yet, being happy about the process. My goodness that was something that was not easy to do.
And yet it was accomplished by him and how I think about him, saying things to us like, "Look after you win the game, be gentleman, go over there and shake their hands," or he would say "You represent a football team that is the extraordinary of the students in the school because as you've noticed not all of the young men in this school have decided they want to play football, So you're extraordinary in that instance, you're going to also be extraordinarily good leaders and on Friday, you will dress and you will wear a tie and you will help the teachers in your classes and if I ever hear that you're not helping your teachers in your classes and you're not being leaders, you and I will meet and we will discuss it privately in my office. But, you will not like that conversation."
He would say things like, "We are a small team. So what we have to be as fast, but also what we have to be is enjoying the game fellas, you get to play the game, and that in and of itself is reward enough."
Coach was an inspiration, but he did so tactfully, you know, I don't remember him; ever raising his voice and yelling at us? I don't, I think that he just had this ability to communicate by his presence, that he had the power. And that he had the ability to lead us, to do the kinds of things that we needed to win.
Tact is a trait that can be learned. Dale Carnegie training is worth taking. Join a toastmaster's speech training club, a club that is positive in its basis and will help you to become better educated about how to relate to people.
Be a club officer, seek out the opportunities to lead others. Because tact is something that as you apply it, you grow it; if you never speak in groups or lead groups, then you don't have to use much tact and so you may not have much tact. But if you have to use it as you use it, you'll make mistakes. But as you grow; from making those mistakes and learning from them, you'll develop this. After all the master; is Jesus.
Unselishness
[63]I'm selfish, most of you who know me know that I grew up without brothers or sisters, but in a good family. In a non nuclear family; never knew my father, who left when I was 2 years old and evidently never looked back that I'm aware of.
But I had a great family, had a mom; gramma, a couple of
uncles; who helped raise me, but I was raised as an individual amongst adults. And so as a result, my outlook was very "me"istic and in today's culture, a majestic outlook fits in real well, because today's culture is all meme meme.
And I don't mean that, as in me-me’s; meme has been social media, I mean, that, as in a very heightened sense of me, almost narcissistic to the point of being a phobia in our culture. I actually know, ladies 25 to 35 years old, whose entire concept of who they want anything to do with is, who makes them feel the best, who makes them happiest, consequently their very difficult to deal with as disciples. Because the idea of giving something up and sacrificing something for an unknown entity, whom they may not see any proof of is a difficult concept to get across to them.
We tend to look at the advent of social media as an unleashing of technology and an unleashing of information. It is way deeper than that. It is emotionally addicting. It is exceptionally experiential, and as a result, when you consider the way that our culture is going, you begin to realize that being unselfish is a trait that is disappearing from our culture.
And when a trait is disappearing from a culture(?); what do you as an individual who wants to make disciples as Christ commanded and bring them back to him in order to learn of his ways, do? Because his thoughts are not our thoughts. His ways are not our ways. God The father is not a human that we should expect that he would act and react as we act. And react, we are made in his image created to please and worship him and that concept isn't for a narcissist.
Consequently, social media based culture is a difficult one for people to consider, and when we're talking about the power of young ladies to influence young men who are extremely easily influenced by them; now we have an entirely different picture.
Consider this. In 2023, the human race began a 3.2% decline in birth rate. And what that means is in a very distant future we won't exist. We are making ourselves extinct. Because we cannot be unselfish. That is a very dangerous place to be. Do you think that ////Jesus was unselfish? Tell your disciples about that.
